Marion Bartoli fuels talk of return after 20-month retirement
By Simon Briggs, Tennis Correspondent
10:50PM GMT 03 Mar 2015
Comments
It always sounded like a negotiating position rather than a truly clean break, and Marion Bartoli’s 20 months of so-called “retirement” now appear to be drawing to a close, after she posted a tantalising message on her Twitter page.

Coming back or not coming back to #tennis? What do you think?Should I? Donnez moi votre avis, retour ou pas au #tennis
Inevitably, the responses came thick and fast and they were overwhelmingly positive, because Bartoli’s double-handed style and complex personality have earned her a strong following.
Her original decision to quit came only six weeks after her shock victory at Wimbledon in 2013, where she became the sixth woman in the Open era to romp through the tournament without dropping a set.
The motivation for quitting, she said at the time, was largely physical. In her first match after the unexpected glory of Centre Court, she won the first set against a journeywoman opponent and found that “my back was hurting, I can’t lift my arm above my shoulder because it is hurting so much, the same from my Achilles. If after 25 minutes of play your body is feeling like that, something was telling me that I couldn’t do it any more”.
Swan digs deep to reach Australian Open girls’ final
Cherish Williams sisters and give them more respect
Serena cranking through the gears down under
Order of play, day five
But bodies heal with time and 28 was always a shockingly early age to retire at. Other grand slam champions such as Kim Clijsters, Justine Henin and Martina Hingis have made similar decisions only to reverse them, and all three went on to mount more-or-less successful comebacks. Clijsters won three more major titles, while Henin reached the final of the 2010 Australian Open, and Hingis – now aged 34, and on her third stint as a professional – lifted the mixed doubles title in Melbourne just over a month ago.
One interesting take on the debate yesterday came from Jimmy Connors, the man who played until he was 43 and leads the all-time list with 1,253 ATP match wins, almost 200 more than second-placed Ivan Lendl. “Only if you get fit – in shape – and healthy,” wrote Connors on his Twitter page, in response to Bartoli’s message. “And commit yourself to getting back to the top. Sounds easy enough!!”
Meanwhile, Serbian police have launched an investigation into a possible ticket fraud after critical comments from world No1 Novak Djokovic about the rapid sell-out of seats for this weekend’s highly-charged Davis Cup tie in Belgrade against neighbouring Croatia. All the tickets sold out in less than 15 minutes, prompting Djokovic to exclaim: “That is impossible, it is clear that someone has committed a crime ... that harms both the national tennis federation and the national team.”
In Glasgow, the entire British team practised together on Tuesday for the first time ahead of their own Davis Cup meeting with the United States.
The Americans have not called up any cover for their second singles player Donald Young, despite his early retirement from a match in Acapulco a week ago, so we can be confident that all the first-choice players on both sides are fit and available for duty.

