http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/571023/s/42e298fe/sc/38/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ctennis0Caustralianopen0C113812160CKatie0ESwan0Edigs0Edeep0Eto0Ereach0EAustralian0EOpen0Egirls0Efinal0Bhtml/story01.htm
Katie Swan digs deep to reach Australian Open girls’ final
By Simon Briggs, Melbourne
9:15PM GMT 30 Jan 2015
Comments
Jokes about Wichita linesmen have been hard to avoid in Melbourne since Katie Swan, a 15-year-old Bristolian who now lives in the heart of Kansas, started out on the road to the girls’ final.
Swan is aiming to become the first British girl to win here at the Australian Open since Annabel Croft 30 years ago, though standing in her way is the unseeded Tereza Mihalikova from Slovakia. But win or lose, Swan’s determination to fight for every last point has been a revelation this week – especially when you consider how barren the past couple of seasons have been for British juniors.
“She’s a good athlete, got a very good mind,” said Judy Murray this week before catching a flight home to prepare for Great Britain’s tilt at the Fed Cup in Budapest next week. “She’s got a very good foundation to her game already, strong serve, strong forehand. But I think it’s her calmness and her ability to stick to a task that impresses me.”
Murray was speaking before Swan’s semi-final against the fifth seed, Dalma Galfi, of Hungary. But the match could not have underlined her verdict more strongly. Swan lost the first set 6-0 and trailed 4-2 in the second before coming back to level the match on a tie-break.
She then suffered a series of agonising attacks of cramp in the third set, one of which reduced her to tears, yet still managed to fight off three match points before coming through 7-5 in the decider. It had taken her 2 hr 36 min, but if her tennis faltered occasionally, her commitment never did.
Katie Swan turns eye on next prize after Melbourne run
Katie Swan: Britain's new tennis Queen
Swan: Holiday tennis lesson kick-started my career
How Mauresmo revived Murray's warrior spirit
“I never give up and keep fighting to the very end,” said Swan, who has picked up a mid-Western twang in the two years since her father, who works in the oil industry, relocated from Britain and took his family with him.
“There was one point when I felt my whole leg wanted to collapse. I went to the ground at one stage. I had to try to not think about it and keep going. I was struggling with moving but took some salt straight away and that helped and I stayed really strong mentally. I knew that is one of my strengths but today proved that.”
Swan was discovered on a holiday to Portugal as a seven-year-old, when the instructor at the local tennis centre recognised her natural hand-eye co-ordination and predicted that she could play at international level.
Within two years, she had received her first invitation to a training camp with Judy Murray, then the British under-10s captain.

“I am still supported by the Lawn Tennis Association,” added Swan, “but I think the move has really helped me with my tennis because I have two amazing coaches [Wichita State University’s Collin Foster as well as Rex Coad, head professional at Wichita Country Club] and a really good fitness trainer.
“A lot of people ask me whether I would play as an American but I am definitely going to stay British. I do miss my friends in England, and little things like the chocolate but I love it in America and it’s a really good lifestyle for me and my family.”
Swan’s emergence is welcome indeed, yet it does also highlight Britain’s shortage of high-quality male juniors. We have failed to send a single representative to four of the last five boys’ grand-slam tournaments, and the three years from 1996 to 1999 have barely produced a player of note.
