http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/571023/s/3fb755c6/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ctennis0Cwilliamssisters0C111799420CSerena0EWilliams0Esuffers0Eheaviest0Eloss0Esince0Eshe0Ewas0E160Eyears0Eold0Eafter0Ebeing0Ethrashed0E60E0A0E60E20Eby0ESimona0EHalep0Bhtml/story01.htm
Serena Williams suffers heaviest loss since she was 16-years-old after being thrashed 6-0, 6-2 by Simona Halep
By Simon Briggs
6:50PM BST 22 Oct 2014
Comments
Serena Williams endured her heaviest defeat for 16 years in Singapore on Wednesday, losing against Simona Halep by an alarming 6-0, 6-2 scoreline. Even so, few will be writing off Williams’s chances of winning the BNP Paribas WTA Finals for the third successive year, given the unpredictability of her results all season.
“Explanations are pretty sparse with Serena,” said Martina Navratilova, a woman whose eight successes at the season-ending championship put her out on her own.
“You never know what’s really going on, but something was not right today, because she didn’t serve well and she played very passive. Serena would normally be dominating. Having said that, the courts are playing really, really slow, which means that the defenders have been winning.”
Navratilova, who is commentating on the Singapore event for BT Sport, added: “It was the same with Caroline Wozniacki beating Maria Sharapova last night.”
The match statistics were extraordinary. The last time Williams won as few as two games in a match, she was 16-years-old and playing in her ninth senior event. Her opponent then, in an event in Oklahoma City, was a much more experienced South African, Joannette Kruger.
Navratilova hits out at ITF for 'silence' over Williams
Calling the Williams sisters 'scary' isn't just sexist
Serena: Williams brothers jibe 'sexist, racist bullying'
Russian tennis chief banned for 'Williams brothers' jibe
This time it was Williams who had the years behind her. Despite a lofty ranking of No 4 in the world, Halep is only just 23 and has never been to the WTA Finals before. But the Romanian said afterwards that “I played the match of my life, I played unbelievable shots,” while Williams was scathing about her own effort.
“Yeah, my forehand was off today again,” she said. “I guess it went on an early vacation. Lord knows my serve was as well. My serve, I don’t even know. My serve was at best in the 10 and under division in juniors. It was actually embarrassing I think describes the way I played. Yeah, very embarrassing.”
With one day of round-robin matches to go, Halep has all but qualified for the semi-finals, while Williams will need to beat Eugenie Bouchard – who has been out of sorts after picking up a leg injury in Linz a fortnight ago – to be confident of progressing.
“Serena has had an uncharacteristic year,” Navratilova told The Telegraph. “Normally even if her results are patchy she performs well at the grand slams, which wasn’t the case until the fall. But at least she redeemed herself at the US Open.
“Now she’s got 18 majors,” added Navratilova, who stands level with Williams and Chris Evert on that same number, “and I don’t think she’s done yet. She’s still the favourite to finish the year as No 1, even though Maria Sharapova also had a chance coming into Singapore. With the year-end finals, it’s usually a question of whose body is holding up better, because everyone is tired by this stage of the season.”
Energy levels are also likely to be critical in the last stages of the men’s race to qualify for their equivalent event, next month’s Barclays ATP World Tour Finals at the O2 Arena. Andy Murray put in a steady performance in Valencia on Wednesday to see off Jurgen Melzer 6-3, 6-3, though the fine print means that he does not actually earn any extra points for the win. (You only count six events other than Masters and Grand Slams, so he has to reach the semi-finals on Saturday before he will find himself in credit this week.)
Murray, who has Amelie Mauresmo back in his player’s box this week for the first time since the US Open, will now move on to an intriguing second-round match against Fabio Fognini – the mercurial Italian who beat him in a decisive Davis Cup rubber in April to send Great Britain out of this year’s competition.
There is an opportunity here for him, especially as Valencia’s second seed Tomas Berdych endured a surprise defeat to Pablo Andujar.
Should he go on to win the tournament – which would probably involve a third meeting with David Ferrer in a month he could climb as high as No 5 in the race. (He is No 8 at the moment, the final qualifying position.)
Navratilova gave her own endorsement to Murray’s coaching arrangements when she said: “You always want people to succeed, male or female, but in this case you feel the world is going to pay attention. I definitely want Amelie to do well and it seems that she is, so good for her and good for Andy. I’m very happy about it.”

The BNP Paribas WTA Finals in Singapore are live on BT Sport, one of 21 exclusively live WTA events on BT Sport each year.
