Michel Platini: English Premier League isn't only competition in world - Qatar 2022 in winter gets my vote
By Ben Rumsby, in Zurich
11:53AM GMT 18 Mar 2015
Comments
Michel Platini has poured scorn on Richard Scudamore’s claim that Uefa “let down” the Premier League by agreeing to a November-December World Cup in 2022.
The controversial switch of dates for the tournament in Qatar is set to be ratified by Fifa on Thursday or Friday in defiance of Scudamore’s opposition to the move.
Uefa had also been against November-December dates, having wanted a January-February event, but it backed down ahead of last month’s final meeting of the task force set up to explore the matter.
That angered Scudamore but Uefa president Platini was unrepentant on Wednesday, saying: “It’s not only the Premier League in the world. There are many leagues, many players, many clubs.”
• Henry Winter: English football is rich enough to absorb this disruption • World Cup 2022 final may take place on 23 December
Platini said Uefa’s willingness to embrace November-December proved it was prepared to make concessions for that season’s Champions League.
He also stood by his decision to vote for Qatar to stage the 2022 World Cup and push for it to be moved to winter, despite it having bid for a summer tournament.
“I always said that it would be a winter World Cup,” he added. “I always said I will vote for Qatar but that will do my best for it to be in winter and I hope it will be in the Gulf.
“I’m totally coherent with what I said four years ago, totally.
“I work for what I am convinced is good for football.”
Platini argued the switch would make for a better competition, saying: “I think we will have the players in good condition.
“Normally, the football will be better in December than in June – normally.”
The Frenchman also rejected calls from the president of Ukraine for countries to consider boycotting the next World Cup in Russia over the crisis in the region.
“Boycotting never resolves the problem – never,” he said, claiming that the “millions of people in Russia” did not deserve to be punished over a “political” matter for which they were not responsible.
Platini reiterated his call for sin-bins to be introduced to football in the wake of the spate of players hounding referees.
And he claimed he did not care that Fifa president Sepp Blatter was refusing to take part in a debate with other presidential candidates ahead of May’s elections.
Saying he did not think Blatter was afraid of such scrutiny, he added: “He’s very good on television, Mr Blatter. What has he to be afraid about?”

