Glasgow 2014: Nigerian 16-year-old weightlifter Chika Amalaha fails drug test at Commonwealth Games
By Alasdair Reid, in Glasgow
11:38AM BST 29 Jul 2014
Comments
A Nigerian weightlifter has become the first medallist to fail a drugs test at the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow after testing positive for two banned substances.
Chika Amalaha, 16, became the youngest woman to win a weightlifting title in Games history when she took gold in the 53kg category last Friday. However, the sample she provided afterwards showed traces of amiloride and hydrochlorothiazide, which are prohibited as diuretics and masking agents under class five of the World Anti-Doping Agency’s list.
A statement from the Commonwealth Games Federation confirmed that Amalaha had been “issued with a notice of disclosure” and that she had been provisionally suspended from the Games. It also said that she would pursue her right to have her B sample tested independently, which will happen at a London laboratory on Wednesday.
The Nigerian Weightlifting Federation was suspended in 2001 after a succession of doping violations came to light. As a consequence, none of the federation’s competitors were allowed to take part in the Commonwealth Games in Manchester the following year.
Three years ago, a Nigerian newspaper claimed that drug-taking was rife throughout the country’s sports. After one weightlifting event, the newspaper reported: “A tour of the stadium revealed discarded cases of used syringes, empty injectable vials of stanazol and sustanol, packets and bottles of different anabolic substances.”
Commonwealth Games day 11: as it happened
Glasgow 2014 schedule: Day 6
Commonwealth Scottie dogs 'disrespect Muslims'
If Amalaha’s B sample also produces a positive test result then she will be stripped of her title and the silver medallist, Dike Toua, of Papua New Guinea, will be awarded the gold medal instead.
While it is not the route Toua would have wanted, it would be a hugely popular achievement throughout the sport as the 30-year-old is a revered figure in weightlifting circles. At Sydney in 2000 she became the first woman to lift weights in an Olympics event.
Sir Craig Reedie, the Scotsman who chairs Wada, expressed his concern that an athlete such as Amalaha should apparently be taking drugs at such a young age.
“I am very disappointed that somebody as young as that appears to have committed an offence at a multi-sport event like the Commonwealth Games,” Reedie said.
Weightlifting has been at the centre of a number of drugs scandals down the years but Mike Hooper, the CGF chief executive, said that it still had a place in the family of sport.
“I think weightlifting is a fantastic sport and a strong Commonwealth and Olympic sport,” Hooper said. “I think the issue here is about showing we have a robust anti-doping programme in place.”

