US Open 2014: Martin Kaymer keeps European flag flying high with pillar-to-post success
By James Corrigan, Golf Correspondent, at Pinehurst
1:11AM BST 16 Jun 2014
Comments
Tony Jacklin, Severiano Ballesteros, Rory McIlroy ... these are the Europeans who Martin Kaymer joined here on Sunday night by winning his second major before his 30th birthday. Yet the manner in which he won the 114th US Open drew comparisons with another multiple champion.
Tiger Woods would have been proud of this eight-shot stroll. Indeed, this was probably the finest display in America’s national championship since the red-shirted one broke all records with the 15-shot victory at Pebble Beach in 2000. McIlroy’s own eight-shot win at Congressional three years ago is clearly another to bear comparison, although the man himself doffed his visor to the German.
Like the superstar duo of Woods and McIlroy, Kaymer held the outright lead from start to finish. Nobody else but this trio have accomplished that in the last 30 years in any major.
Yes, all the statistics were being trotted out as the 29-year-old made a mockery of the competition after a 69. For so long out here on the baked grounds of Pinehurst yesterday it was a question of how many. There were some incredibly stupid individuals in the crowd who cheered whenever Kaymer made a mistake (which, thankfully, was not often).
Perhaps they were merely desperate to see Erik Compton prevail; yet his happens to be an incredible story regardless. Compton finished in a tight second with his fellow American Rickie Fowler, who gained his best major finish.
Fitzpatrick in fantasyland
Kaymer demolishes the course
Kaymer moves into five-shot lead
Donald's search for major continues
Compton, 34, is on his third heart, having undergone his second transplant six years ago. He still suffers from the side effects of his condition but he does not moan and simply gets on with it. He was the only one to threaten to make a fight of it with Kaymer and the Masters berth he gained was the least he deserved.
Or perhaps those idiots yelling for a Kaymer collapse were merely bemoaning the fact that Europe have won four out of the last five US Opens. As 40 years separated Tony Jacklin in 1970 to Graeme McDowell in 2010, that is a remarkable return.
Paul McGinley, the Europe captain, will doubtless take a little pleasure from that, although he will mainly be delighted to have Kaymer in his team for Gleneagles. The player who held the putt to retain the Medinah two years ago, has restated his status as one of the game's elite individuals.
Kaymer also won last month’s Players Championship in pillar-to-post fashion, making him the first in history to do this particular double in the same season. It takes him to the brink of the world’s top 10, but, in truth, everybody knows the former world No 1 is back to his very best.
As he went through his swing change, Kaymer dropped to 63rd in the rankings but he pressed on, certain the good days would return. Well, here they are again and as he has so much self-belief in actually being better than he was in his previous pomp, it will be a shock if he is not soon up there challenging Adam Scott and the likes of McIlroy for the No 1 slot.
“I’m wondering how he did that,” McIlroy said. “It’s really tough. I think I’ve made a total of nine birdies this week and I don’t see any more out there. What’s he made, 15 and an eagle and with hardly any mistakes? What he’s done is more impressive than what I did at Congressional.
“It’s so good to see him back where he belongs. Martin’s a really talented guy, such a hard worker and obviously a great player.”
No one will argue with that. Having begun with a five-shot lead, Kaymer drove the green on the par-four third to maintain his advantage as Compton birdied the fifth and the eighth and when the leader bogeyed the seventh there was “only” four in it.
Not for long. Kaymer birdied the ninth and, despite bogeying the 10th (where the cheers greeted his errors in chipping back and fore over the green) when Compton bogeyed the 11th and 12th, it was effectively over. And it was officially over when Kaymer holed a 12-footer on the 13th and a 15-footer on the 14th.
Justin Rose, the defending champion, finished top Briton, just outside the top 10, on three-over following a 72. Ian Poulter was one behind after a 70, while McIlroy fell outside the top 20 on six-over after a 73.
Matt Fitzpatrick was alongside Kaymer at the prize-giving having become the first player to hold low-amateur medal honours at the US Open and Open at the same time since the great Bobby Jones in 1930. The 19-year-old from Sheffield signed off from the non-paid ranks with a 69 which took him to 11-over and into the top 50. Fitzpatrick now turns pro and will play in this week’s Irish Open at Fota Island.

