Rafael Nadal battles appendicitis on way to defeat as elite suffer at Shanghai Masters – but Andy Murray survives
By Simon Briggs, Tennis Correspondent
9:48PM BST 08 Oct 2014
Comments
On an eventful day at the Shanghai Masters five of the world’s top 10 endured defeat – including Rafael Nadal – while Roger Federer escaped joining the exodus when he saved five match points against Leonardo Mayer.
Nadal had an eye-catching excuse for his 6-3, 7-6 exit at the hands of fellow Spanish left-hander Feliciano Lopez. He has been suffering from appendicitis this week, though a course of antibiotics left him in good enough shape to compete. After the match he said that he intended to play through the rest of the season before having his appendix removed.
“I didn’t have the best of luck since Wimbledon,” Nadal, who has now managed only four matches since early July, said. “After that I was unlucky with the wrist [and] what’s going on now. Obviously the last couple of months have been little bit hard for me.”
Milos Raonic was also affected by illness – in his case a virus – as he retired from his match against Juan Monaco shortly before the end of the first set. And the rankings were turned on their head by three other surprises as Stan Wawrinka, Kei Nishikori and Grigor Dimitrov also lost their opening matches at the tournament.
After losing against Gilles Simon in three sets, Wawrinka posted a message on his Twitter page that read: “If today is the worst day of your life, you know tomorrow will be better.” In the interview room, he also bemoaned the form that has seen his season tail away badly after huge successes at the Australian Open and the Monte Carlo Masters.
Nadal to play on despite appendicitis
Djokovic hails 'greatest ever final'
Murray beaten by Djokovic at China Open
Murray to face Djokovic in China Open semi-final
Murray set for Cilic test at China Open
All of this represented terrific news for Andy Murray, who is scrabbling his way up the rankings ladder as the clock ticks down towards the Barclays ATP World Tour Finals at the O2 Arena next month.
Murray swatted aside the challenge of Jerzy Janowicz for the second time in a week, this time winning 7-5, 6-2, with one of his most efficient performances of the season. At some time around 8am (BST) on Thursday, he plays David Ferrer in a pivotal match. The two men are almost neck-and-neck in the race to London, standing 30 points apart.
If Murray should win that one, he will also move within a whisker – five points – of Milos Raonic in eighth place, the last qualification berth for the Finals.
After Federer’s heroics in beating Mayer 7-5, 3-6, 7-6, the Swiss will swap places with Nadal and climb to world No 2 in the next set of rankings.

