http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604250/s/20254d38/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Colympics0Cmodern0Epentathlon0C93189250CLondon0E20A120EOlympics0ETeam0EGB0Emodern0Epentathlon0Esquad0Efor0EGames0Eannounced0Eby0EBritish0EOlympic0EAssociation0Bhtml/story01.htm
London 2012 Olympics: Team GB modern pentathlon squad for Games announced by British Olympic Association
By Telegraph Sport
10:45AM BST 08 Jun 2012
Comments
Spence will be joined in the women's competition by fellow Olympic debutant Samantha Murray, who won bronze at the Rome world championships in May.
Britain have won four medals in female modern pentathlon since the women's event was added to the Olympic programme at the Sydney Games in 2000.
In the men's event, world number five Nick Woodbridge is joined by Sam Weale, who recently became the first British man to win a European Championships medal.
After eight athletes met the qualification standard, the British Olympic Association were able to name a full team for the second successive Olympics.
Team GB chef de mission Andy Hunt said: "The fact that eight British athletes achieved the modern pentathlon Olympic qualification standard is a tribute to the excellent performance programme that has been developed by Pentathlon GB.
Mhairi Spence: profile
Samantha Murray: profile
Nick Woodbridge: profile
Sam Weale: profile
Spence wins Pentathlon gold
Modern pentathlon guide
"The four athletes selected today have demonstrated their great potential with impressive results at world level over the past 12 months, most notably through the gold and bronze medals won by Mhairi and Samantha respectively at the world championships.
"British modern pentathletes have an excellent track record in Olympic competition, winning four medals in the last three Games. We will do everything we can to support them in their quest to win a medal for the fourth consecutive Olympic Games.
"I have every confidence they will deliver inspirational performances."
Stephanie Cooke won Britain's first modern pentathlon gold in Sydney and Kate Allenby claimed bronze. Georgina Harland finished third in Athens and Heather Fell won silver in Beijing.
The men's competition takes place on August 11. The women's event is a day later and will be the last medals won at the 2012 Olympic Games.
Spence said: "I find it hard to find words to describe how excited I am to be part of the British team for the London 2012 Olympic Games.
"I've dreamed of competing at an Olympics since I was eight years old and I feel like it's so much more special because the Olympic Games will be in London."
Woodbridge finished 10th at the world championships.
"I'm in the best shape of my career and I have a lot more experience than four years ago in Beijing," said Woodbridge.
"I'm aiming to win a medal at this Olympics, like I did in the World Cup final in Greenwich a year ago."
