Liverpool vs Manchester United: player ratings
By Luke Edwards
4:03PM GMT 22 Mar 2015
Comments
Simon Mignolet – was left exposed by his defence when United scored, but could also have got his angles a little better as Mata squeezed a shot inside the far post. Saved Rooney penalty brilliantly
Emre Can – described as a Rolls Royce footballer in the build-up, he looked more like a Skoda here. The German is much improved, solid and reliable, but is not quite a classic defender yet and gave away a late penalty
Martin Skrtel – thoroughly enjoyed his physical battle with Wayne Rooney and got the better of the Manchester United captain too. Can be pleased with his contribution.
•Gerrard sees red seconds after coming on •Time for Liverpool's captain to say goodbye: What we learnt at Anfield •How the game unfolded •Liverpool 1 Manchester United 2, match report
Mamadou Sakho – athletic and strong, he has all the attributes needed to be a top defender and he needs them because makes too many mistakes. Thankfully he recovered from most of them, although caught out by Mata run for United’s first.
Raheem Sterling – whatever is going on with his protracted and increasingly acrimonious contract negotiations has distracted him. This was easily the winger’s worst game of the year and he did not enjoy being deployed as a wingback either

Joe Allen – neat, tidy but largely anonymous. The suspicion remains that the Wales international goes missing against the best sides. When you have picked ahead of Steven Gerrard by your manager, you need to be far more involved than this
Jordan Henderson – was bullied by Fellani for much of the first half, but one sublime pass in the first half to Sterling should have led to qn equaliser. Drives his team forward with his sheer willpower, but not his most effective game
Alberto Moreno – tried to get forward whenever he could, but Liverpool had more to worry about going the other way. He still looks a little vulnerable when Liverpool are not able to dominate possession
Adam Lallana – could not influence the game and appeared to be struggling physically after England teammate Phil Jones landed on him heavily. Withdrawn at half-time and a poor game by his recent standards
Coutinho is starting to come of age at Anfield
Philippe Coutinho – is maturing into one of the finest creative midfielders in the Premier League and began brightly. Faded as United dominated possession and was well controlled by Carrick, but still created goal against run of play for Sturridge
Daniel Sturridge – hardly saw the ball and cannot be blamed for that. Looked isolated and increasingly frustrated, but took the only chance that came his way clinically. Getting back to his best
Subs: Gerrard for Lallana 46 – moment of madness from the captain and sent off just 30 seconds after coming on for stamp on Herrera. 2
Balotelli for Moreno 66 more interested in arguing with United players than hurting them with a telling contribution for his team 5
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Did you know Telegraph Sport has a ?

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Manchester United
David De Gea – could not have anticipated he would have such a quiet afternoon and lost concentration, allowing Sturridge’s shot to beat him at his near post
Antonio Valencia – apart from one ridiculous tackle on his own teammate after a heavy first touch, he was error free defensively and got forward when he could
Phil Jones – a decent game but gives the impression of a player who is never completely aware of where the players are around him, which leads to errors, Booked for poor tackle on Henderson and also clattered Lallana
Chris Smalling – he is starting to look like the defender Sir Alex Ferguson thought he could be when he signed him from Fulham three years ago. Good in the air, solid on the ground and calm under pressure.
Mata must surely have found a regular starting spot after this display
Ashley Young – not his best game in terms of hurting the opposition in the final third but did a solid job for the team before he was replaced by Di Maria in the second half
Michael Carrick – conducted the Manchester United performance. Showed touches of class on the ball and helped prevent Coutinho dictate Liverpool’s forward moves. No wonder they have given him a new contract
Daley Blind – pushed over to left-back he did not let anybody down and got the better of an out-of-sorts Sterling. Is becoming a player to be relied upon, wherever he is deployed
Ander Herrera – is enjoying having fellow Spain international Mata outside him and the two linked up well, particularly in the first half. It is a dangerous combination. Both can open up defences with one insightful pass, as Herrera did for the first goal.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Did you know Telegraph Sport has a ?

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Juan Mata - a masterclass. Quite why they Spaniard has been on the bench for so many games this season is a mystery. Some of his touches were breathtaking, he never wastes the ball and took both his goals superbly. Rarely is a man of the match so obvious
Marouane Fellaini – a typical Fellaini performances. Did some good things and some bad. Appeared Won his fair share of headers throughout, particularly in defence, worked hard, but did not make the most of some promising positions
Wayne Rooney –a player as good as he is should not wander offside so many times. Was dominated by Liverpool’s three centre-backs and began to lash out at those around him as he failed to influence the game. Even missed a late penalty
Subs: Di Maria for Young 55 showed his class with exquisite pass for Mata’s second goal 7
Falcao for Herrera 83 did not do much when he came on, but little time to show anything 6
Rojo for Blind 94

