http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569199/s/4087ce63/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cgolf0Ceuropeantour0C112341590CRory0EMcIlroy0Ewins0ERace0Eto0EDubai0Eafter0EBrooks0EKoepka0Eseals0Ethe0ETurkish0EAirlines0EOpen0Bhtml/story01.htm
Rory McIlroy wins Race to Dubai after Brooks Koepka seals the Turkish Airlines Open
3:33PM GMT 16 Nov 2014
Comments
When you are as good as Rory McIlroy you can pick up a winning cheque for $1.25 million (£798,000) even when you are not playing. The world No1 was confirmed as the Race to Dubai champion when Brooks Koepka lifted his first European Tour title at the Turkish Airlines Open.
In truth, McIlroy would have been huge odds-on to win his second Harry Vardon Trophy in three years even if one of Jamie Donaldson, Sergio García or Marcel Siem had prevailed in Belek. In the event, Siem came closest, finishing eighth. With Lee Westwood fading after taking a share of the lead after the first hole of the final round - the Englishman eventually finishing in a tie with Siem - it was left to Ian Poulter to battle down the stretch with the 24-year-old.
This was a rare occasion when Poulter, the living Ryder Cup legend, came second best when going head to head with an American. After Koepka had signed for a flawless 65 for a 17-under title, Poulter required a birdie on the par-five 18th to force the play-off. But Poulter, so renowned for his ability to close out tournaments, missed from six feet.
That was not the source of Poulter’s anger, however. The Englishman held a six-shot lead at the halfway point and at that stage seemed almost assured of his first win of a mediocre. But then he shot a third round 75.
"The damage was done on Saturday. That, for me, is really disappointing. To have played three great rounds of golf, and just one blip on Saturday, which is a real shame.
What are Tiger Woods and Donald Trump up to in Dubai?
McIlroy deserves to win Race to Dubai early, says Westwood
Revived Watson ready to banish American blues
Rivals step up pursuit of McIlroy
"So you know, it's frustrating, is what it is. Yes, I'm going to be angry. I'll be angry for a good few days. I'll keep myself in my own little room and have a little chat with myself and come out and win next week."
McIlroy, who plays his first tournament in six weeks’ time, might have something to say about that. As might, Koepka, the big-hitting youngster from Florida who finished fourth in the US Open in June. Like his friend, Peter Uihlein, Koepka has learned his trade in Europe, but now he has graduated into the world’s top 50 he will become a global player.
“This field is first class, some of the best players in the world, so this feels awesome,” he said. ”To jump into the top 50 in the world (he started the week 61st) and be in all the majors and I guess some of the World Golf Championships events, it will be special.”
Henrik Stenson, who will defend his title in Dubai next week, carded a flawless closing 64 to finish third on 14-under, one shot ahead of Miguel Angel Jiménez, the overnight leader, Wade Ormsby, and the English pair of Andy Sullivan and Danny Willett.
