Sergio Garcia fears Miguel Angel Jimenez's English is not good enough to be Ryder Cup captain in 2016
By James Corrigan, Golf Correspondent
8:23PM GMT 11 Nov 2014
Comments
Even Sergio García, a friend and countryman, is worried about the merits of Miguel Ángel Jiménez’s candidature as the next Europe Ryder Cup captain, making it yet more likely that Darren Clarke will assume the hot seat.
The race to succeed Paul McGinley is seen as a straight choice between the Spaniard and the Northern Irishman, with a five-man panel due to decide in January.
Rory McIlroy, Ian Poulter and Graeme McDowell have expressed their preference for Clarke and it seems that García, despite his obvious ties with Jiménez, can see their logic.
“While Darren and Miguel are both good candidates I am just concerned for Miguel, and worried that his English is not good enough to deal with all the pressure that goes with being a European Team captain,” García said.
“Becoming captain is different. From the time you get appointed there is more than a year-and-a-half of activities, engagements, interviews and so on that a new captain has to deal with.
Couples: US Ryder Cup team 'all about the players'
It would be farce if McIlroy is not crowned No 1
Watson wins WGC after stunning final flourish
Fowler hits back at Mickelson
“So it is important that everyone he speaks to over that period understands exactly what he is saying because words can be misinterpreted.
"Being a Ryder Cup captain is being the spokesman for the Tour and its sponsors – and then when competition gets under way there’s so many speeches he will have to handle.”
García is playing in this week’s Turkish Airlines Open, which he must win if he is to have any chance of overhauling McIlroy’s lead at the top of the European Tour’s Order of Merit.
García would also have to win at next week’s DP World Tour Championship – and even then he would then have to rely on McIlroy finishing outside the top seven in that finale to the season in Dubai.

