http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/668943/s/42ce5e49/sc/8/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0C113757740CSteffon0EArmitage0Equestioned0Eby0EFrench0Epolice0Eover0Ean0Eallegation0Eof0Eassault0Bhtml/story01.htm
Steffon Armitage questioned by French police over an allegation of assault
By Daniel Schofield
9:41PM GMT 28 Jan 2015
Comments
Steffon Armitage was being questioned by French police on Wednesday night over an allegation of assault following Toulon’s victory against Leicester in the Champions Cup last month.
Armitage and Xavier Chiocci, his teammate, was held in custody for several hours at a police station in Toulon in connection with injuries sustained by a 30-year-old man. The incident happened at a Mourillon beachside bar after Toulon’s 23-8 victory over Leicester at the Stade Felix Mayol on December 13.
The Toulon squad were enjoying what the French know as the the “troisieme mi-temps” when the incident occurred. The local press have reported that a fight broke out over a girl that left the victim with a severe eye injury. Neither Armitage nor Chiocci have any recollection of the incident and voluntarily attended the police station, although they have yet to have been charged. The victim also has little memory of how he sustained his injuries, although eye-witnesses have reportedly identified Armitage, the flanker, and Chiocci, the prop, as the perpetrators. No one at Toulon was available for comment.
The allegations alone will be a hugely damaging blow to Armitage’s already faint hopes of being called up for England’s World Cup squad. Stuart Lancaster, the England head coach, has steadfastly ignored his outstanding form for the European champions because of the RFU’s policy of not selecting overseas based players.
There is an “exceptional circumstances” get-out clause that Lancaster was considering invoking to involve the 29-year-old in the expanded World Cup training squad. Armitage has won five caps for England when he was at London Irish, but has developed into Europe’s finest turnover specialist and was last season crowned European Player of the Year. He has maintained that form this season and won five turnovers against the Scarlets last weekend.
Armitage 'brawl' jeopardises hopes
Armitage faces suspended sentence
Eastmond and Wood join list of crocks
Gatland plays down England injuries
After flirting with the possibility of qualifying for France through an IRB Olympic loophole, Armitage attempted to engineer a move to Bath before the Champions Cup began but the transfer fell through. The very whiff of controversy, which have long dogged his brother, Delon, who picked up an eight-week suspension for abusing Leicester supporters in the corresponding fixture, may be enough to end his hopes of a recall.
