Referees' chief Mike Riley: Video technology will prevent errors
Mike Riley retired from refereeing in 2009 when he was appointed manager of the Professional Game Match Officials Ltd
22 March 2015 Last updated at 10:47
Video technology to help referees cut out clear mistakes should be introduced in English football, says referees' chief Mike Riley.
Riley's comments came after referee Neil Swarbrick sent off Gareth McAuley instead of Craig Dawson during West Brom's 3-0 defeat at Manchester City.
Swarbrick has apologised for the error.
"We need to see what technology we can use to help get referees' decisions more accurate," said Riley. "Football as a whole has to look at it."
Speaking about Swarbrick's error, Riley - head of the Professional Game Match Officials Ltd (PGMOL) - told BBC Radio 5 live's Sportsweek: "All it takes is a split-second lapse in concentration.
"Neil had four or five elements to judge in half a second and it is that type of situation that would lend itself to technology."
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Man City 3-0 West Brom: Referee decisions changed the game - Pulis
Riley said he had been to the Netherlands with PGMOL performance director Howard Webb, another former referee, to study video assistant technology used in the Dutch league.
"Technology doesn't provide a solution to everything but we can all think of case where a quick reference to a video replay would help us get the decision right," he added.
Riley also revealed that he had spoken to Swarbrick "several times" since the City-West Brom match.
"All referees want to make correct decisions and when you don't do that, you feel you've let yourself and your colleagues down," he said.
"We need to make sure the next time Neil referees, he has learned from the experience and will be a better referee because of it."
All posts are reactively-moderated and must obey the house rules.
Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments
I think we need more help for referees... for instance Balotelli and Skrtel should've been sent off for stamping as well yesterday. Liverpool very lucky.
@316 we-go-togetherWhy apologise publically to everyone BUT the player??surely if you gonna go public you should apologise to the player publically too?i dont beleive he will have apologised to Mata privately, and if so if i was Mata i'd be asking why he didn't include me in his public apology??
Would video technology have made any difference on the Skirtl stamp, because the North West biased website of the BBC seems to have missed it.The hypocrisy of Rodgers shows he truly is the son of Mourinhio.
@316. We-Go-TogetherFeeling a bit grouchy this morning are we? Maybe even a bit humble? How's that pie going down?
312. Posted by 7zark7 still banging on with your nonsense....last night yuou stated you avoid celebrating and peacocking...so how come every comment you make is a pathetic peacocking WUM attempt? go get a life son....Im pretty sure you don't know what happened in the dressing room so its veryu possible Gerrard apologised personally to the player...
watching the six nations they have video technology spot on.do they use it for every decision? NOso why do people think the football refs will??if it is managed right it would work wonders for football and there would be little to no extra stoppage (say 5mins max per half).why its not been done before now i have no idea
I'd like to see phone in technology introduced instead of goals scored. For example at the end of the game there could be a panel with football brains like Robbie Savage, Ian Wrighty Wright and say Phil Nevilles who could decide who gets the three points, bookings, manager sackings and promotion / relegation. As Phil Nevilles is the brother of Skys Gary Nevilles this shouldnt cause any problems.
312. while you talking about this subject.perhaps rooney should come on tv and explain why he kicked out at mignolet..................nah i dont think he would neitheras for refs,its a world wide issue (El classico) the ref didn't have a clue what to do.they need help (mattey boy was on the speaker to the ref about SG stamp, yet others bottle it
Gerrard: 41 secondsComes on tv to apologise (to his team mates and the supporters) and lfc fans and say "how commendable it it is for a player to come out and do admit they were wrong"Apologising to his team mates and suporters.... big deal!A proper man would have said sorry to the player he stamped on!Looking forward to Skrtel getting banned as nobody deserves it more than him.
Just have a man watching on tv feeds (assuming there isn't a delay 'editing' them). There's no need for manager appeals because he is watching/advising on every decision.Also players sent of mistakenly, you have to question the player responsible for not owning up, if I was sent off wrongly I'd be livid with my teammate, not the ref.
We're having some problems displaying the comments at the moment. Sorry. We're doing our best to fix it.
Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments
You must sign in to rate comments
Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register
Close
Mon 23 Mar, 19:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 Live
Women's Super League football, Wed 25 Mar, 19:15 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live sports extra
International football, Wed 25 Mar, 19:45 GMT , BBC Radio 5 live
Catch up with Ski Sunday on the BBC
How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign

