http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/cricket/31963305
Kevin Pietersen: Colin Graves has spoken to sacked player
Incoming ECB chairman Colin Graves has not yet agreed to a meeting with Kevin Pietersen
19 March 2015 Last updated at 12:48
Incoming England and Wales Cricket Board chairman Colin Graves has spoken to batsman Kevin Pietersen about a return to international duty.
The news comes after national selector James Whitaker said the 34-year-old was "not part" of England's plans.
Pietersen wants a meeting with Graves once his World Cup media duties are over, reports BBC Sport's Pat Murphy.
Pietersen, 34, was sacked in February 2014 in the fallout of the 5-0 Ashes whitewash by Australia.
Graves, who takes over as ECB chairman Giles Clarke on 15 May, has not yet agreed to the meeting.
The current Yorkshire chairman says he will try to accommodate Pietersen but told the BBC he has made no promises.
With England in disarray following a poor World Cup, the Pietersen saga rumbling on and the ECB under fire from former skipper Alastair Cook, Michael Vaughan has called the current situation a "soap opera".
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Kevin Pietersen not in our plans - James Whitaker
As far as the Pietersen debate is concerned, Vaughan says the team need to beat West Indies 3-0 to stop talk of a comeback for the South African-born batsman.
"If the team don't want Pietersen in the side, then go to the West Indies and win 3-0," former England skipper Vaughan told Test Match Special.
"Play better, score more runs and win more games and Pietersen will never play again."
Whatever happens against the West Indies, Vaughan thinks Pietersen's chances of a recall to the England set-up are very slim.
"For Kevin to have any hope of playing for England - and it is only a small hope - he has got to play county cricket," said Vaughan.
Pietersen has already said he will do everything he can to play for England again, even playing county cricket again.
He has not played domestic first-class cricket since June 2013.
He had agreed to play for Sunrisers Hyderabad in the Indian Premier League (IPL), which starts on 8 April.
But Sunrisers coach Tom Moody has already approved his release so he can play in the English domestic season.
Six counties have said they are keen on signing Pietersen, who has played only limited-overs cricket since being discarded by England.
"I would love to get county runs," said Pietersen, who has scored 8,181 runs in 104 Tests for England.
"If I can do anything that can help me get back into it for England, then it's something I want to do. I love playing for England."
Indian Premier League
Delhi Daredevils
11
11
294
29.40
English T20 Blast
Surrey
13
12
225
22.50
Caribbean Premier League
St Lucia Zouks
2
2
30
15.00
Australian Big Bash
Melbourne Stars
8
8
293
41.86
How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign
