Ashley and Moundou-Missi Honored By NetScouts Basketball
Arizona won the Pac-12 Tournament behind three strong outings from its veteran forward Brandon Ashley. The Oakland, California native has been named NetScouts Basketball's National Player of the Week for games from March 9th to March 15th.
The 6-foot-9 junior had 15 points and seven rebounds in a 73-51 win over California to open the Pac-12 Tournament. Ashley followed the impressive display with a career-high 24 points and seven rebounds while shooting 9-of-11 from the field against UCLA. He capped the tournament with a team-high 20 points in an 80-52 win over Oregon in the title game. On the week, Ashley averaged 19.7 points and 6.3 rebounds per game while shooting 73.1% (19-of-26) from the field.
Ashley was named a Pac-12 Honorable Mention at the conclusion of the season, but has been one of the most vital pieces to Arizona's squad. With Arizona receiving a two seed in the West Region, the Wildcats will be a Final Four candidate to watch.
The Ivy League needed a one-game playoff to decide its league champion and Steve Moundou-Missi hit the biggest shot of Harvard's season to clinch an NCAA Tournament berth. The Yaounde, Cameroon native been named NetScouts Basketball's International Player of the Week for games from March 9th to March 15th.
With the score tied 51-51 and less than a minute remaining, Harvard had the ball with a chance to take the lead. Moundou-Missi had an open jumper in the short corner, but missed before Harvard claimed the offensive rebound. On the next possession, Wesley Saunders drove to the basket and kicked out to an open Moundou-Missi the top of the key just in front of the three-point line. This time, he knocked down the open look with 7.2 seconds left and Harvard held on for the victory. Moundou-Missi finished the contest with 11 points and nine rebounds while shooting 5-of-11 from the floor and 1-of-1 from three-point range.
The 6-foot-7 senior will be making his fourth straight NCAA Tournament appearance this season for Harvard. The Crimson play North Carolina in the Round of 64 and Harvard will be looking for its third straight NCAA Tournament victory with veterans Moundou-Missi and Saunders leading the way.
Carl Berman is Managing Partner of NetScouts Basketball.

