http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/06/21/bill-russell-yawn-gif-nba-finals-game-7_n_3478425.html
Bill Russell Yawns During Game 7, Stick Around To Present NBA Finals MVP Trophy (GIF/PHOTOS)
At age 79, Bill Russell can still turn in a memorable Game 7 performance.
The man with more appearances (5) and wins (5) in seventh games of the NBA Finals as well as more overall NBA championships (11) than any other player in history had a courtside seat for the climactic contest between the Miami Heat and San Antonio Spurs on Thursday night. Despite his prime viewing location and the back-and-forth nature of the thrilling Finals finale, Russell didn't seem particularly absorbed by what he was watching at one point deep into the third quarter.
The NBA icon yawned the yawn GIF'd 'round the Internet.
GIF: Bill Russell Yawning During Game 7

While the 9 p.m. start to the game could be more responsible for the yawn than the quality of the play, Russell would certainly be forgiven for not being in awe of the event. It's no accident that the trophy awarded to the NBA Finals MVP bears his name. After the Heat clinched their second straight championship, Russell was on hand -- and seemingly wide awake -- to hand off that trophy to LeBron James.
Former NBA player Bill Russell, right, gives the Miami Heat's LeBron James the Bill Russell NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Award after Game 7 of the NBA basketball championships, Friday, June 21, 2013, in Miami. The Miami Heat defeated the San Antonio Spurs 95-88 to win their second straight NBA championship. Bill Russell is at rear. (AP Photo/Wilfredo Lee)
The Miami Heat's LeBron James, left, holds the Larry O'Brien NBA Championship Trophy and the Bill Russell NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Award, as former NBA player Bill Russell, right looks on after Game 7 of the NBA basketball championship against the San Antonio Spurs, Friday, June 21, 2013, in Miami. The Miami Heat defeated the San Antonio Spurs 95-88 to win their second straight NBA championship. (AP Photo/Lynne Sladky
MIAMI, FL - JUNE 20: LeBron James #6 of the Miami Heat hugs Bill Russell after winning the Bill Russell NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Award after defeating the San Antonio Spurs 95-88 to win Game Seven of the 2013 NBA Finals at AmericanAirlines Arena on June 20, 2013 in Miami, Florida. NOTE TO USER: User expressly acknowledges and agrees that, by downloading and or using this photograph, User is consenting to the terms and conditions of the Getty Images License Agreement. (Photo by Kevin C. Cox/Getty Images)
MIAMI, FL - JUNE 20: LeBron James #6 of the Miami Heat shakes hands with Bill Russell after winning the Bill Russell NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Award after defeating the San Antonio Spurs 95-88 to win Game Seven of the 2013 NBA Finals at AmericanAirlines Arena on June 20, 2013 in Miami, Florida. NOTE TO USER: User expressly acknowledges and agrees that, by downloading and or using this photograph, User is consenting to the terms and conditions of the Getty Images License Agreement. (Photo by Mike Ehrmann/Getty Images)
The Miami Heat's LeBron James, left, holding the Larry O'Brien NBA Championship Trophy is given the Bill Russell NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Award, by Former NBA player Bill Russell after Game 7 of the NBA basketball championship against the San Antonio Spurs, Friday, June 21, 2013, in Miami. The Miami Heat defeated the San Antonio Spurs 95-88 to win their second straight NBA championship. (AP Photo/Lynne Sladky
The Miami Heat's LeBron James, left, holding the Larry O'Brien NBA Championship Trophy and his Bill Russell NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Award after Game 7 of the NBA basketball championship game against the San Antonio Spurs, Friday, June 21, 2013, in Miami. The Miami Heat defeated the San Antonio Spurs 95-88 to win their second straight NBA championship. Former NBA player Bill Russell looks on. (AP Photo/Wilfredo Lee)
The Miami Heat's LeBron James, left, holding the Larry O'Brien NBA Championship Trophy and his Bill Russell NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Award after Game 7 of the NBA basketball championship game against the San Antonio Spurs, Friday, June 21, 2013, in Miami. The Miami Heat defeated the San Antonio Spurs 95-88 to win their second straight NBA championship. Former NBA player Bill Russell looks on. (AP Photo/Wilfredo Lee)
