England's Chris and Gabby Adcock first husband-and-wife badminton duo to win Commonwealth mixed doubles gold
By Rod Gilmour, in Glasgow
12:09PM BST 03 Aug 2014
Comments
If the last two days are anything to go by, we will see a sharp rise in happily married couples digging out their rackets and facing each other on beaches and gardens across the country.
For the second time in 48 hours, Chris and Gabby Adcock got their weary bodies out of bed for an early start in the mixed doubles final at Emirates Arena. Just as they had done all week, the No.1 seeds failed to drop a game – 17 points was as close as any opponent got to the pair - as they cast aside team mates Chris Langridge and Heather Olver 21-9, 21-12.
The last married Commonwealth gold medallists may have been shooters’ Malcolm and Sarah Cooper, who won pairs gold at the 1986 Games in Edinburgh, but it was domestic delight twice over in Glasgow.
The previous evening, Paul and Joanna Drinkhall had taken 32 minutes to win mixed doubles gold in table tennis before Chris Adcock fell spread eagled on the floor in victory after 35 minutes of precision, attacking badminton with his wife.
“We stuck to our game plan and kept calm,” he said. “We said to ourselves we really wanted to enjoy it as it could be a once in a lifetime experience – but hopefully not.”
Daley lands gold with diving masterclass
Watch Daley's winning dive
England suffer penalty agony
England beaten by early start
Golden couple see off Scots
The two finalists train together at Badminton England's Milton Keynes base but Langridge and Olver, the surprise finalists, seemed to have little belief in how to cope with this rising world No.5 pairing.
The Adcocks kept forcing their opponents deep in both games, racking up quick points through a succession of smash winners and weighted shots into space.
At 11-19 down in the second, Langridge let out a rare yelp of delight after his partner finished with a delightful drop winner.
It was all too late, of course, and soon it was Chris Adcock’s turn to drop. It mirrored his celebration with former partner Imogen Bankier during the pair's dream run at the 2011 World Championships at Wembley.
But that is in the past. Bankier and Adcock finished as a pair after London 2012, with both meeting each other in a one-sided semi-final on Saturday.
Gabby Adcock, meanwhile, finished as the tournament's most successful player, adding to her silver in the team event and bronze in the women's doubles. This was also England’s 10th gold medal in 13 Commonwealth Games.
"It has been the most exhausting, physically and mentally, two weeks of my life,” said Gabby. "I'd now like Chris to buy me a gold medal for our anniversary to remind us of what we've done. This is what we've dreamt of and it is very surreal.
“It's great to bring this medal back for England, it's an overwhelming feeling. I feel proud to have contributed to the medal table.”
Kirsty Gilmour's dream run ended in the women’s singles final. The Scot has come a long way since making her debut at the Delhi Games as a 16-year-old, but Canada’s Michelle Li proved too strong, winning 21-14, 21-7.

