Voices from four GB sports who have had their funding cut for Rio speak out in anger
By Gareth A Davies and Brendan Gallagher
11:31PM GMT 18 Dec 2012
Comments
Drew Sullivan Basketball: GB men’s captain
GB Basketball will keep fighting to prove its worth. In one way it might even be a blessing in disguise, we can look to be self-financing and stand on our own feet. We have won a lot of new friends in recent years and there are people who believe in us.
The biggest frustration is that I’m not sure it appreciated just how far we have progressed in the last six years. We didn’t even have a GB basketball team when London won the bid. I remember attending the first GB training session when we formed the team and there was just six of us on the court that day in Sheffield.
Six years later in front of 12,000 fans at the Olympics we came within two points and three seconds of beating the number two team in the world, Spain – who went on to narrowly lose to USA in the final and take silver.
We have some great young players coming through our “Futures” programmes and they need an outlet. We won’t give up.
Wrestling loses its grip on the Olympics
Sports starved of Rio funds ask: what about our legacy?
Bobby White Handball: GB men’s captain
I fear things will go from bad to worse. Our last match for the men’s team was out in Greece in October, and we only sent pretty much half a squad because most of the lads who competed at the Games couldn’t afford to pay for their own flights.
I was fortunate enough to get a sponsor, but I don’t want to go and play in these European qualifiers with a half a team and get embarrassed again.
Last year I was playing in France in a very good team, training every day, in top shape for the Games. Now I’m back in the UK, keeping in shape but putting most of my efforts into coaching.
When I explain to the set of lads and girls I coach at the Handball centre of excellence that we do not have funding to go to Rio for men’s and women’s senior teams, they are going to ask what are we actually aspiring to now?
What is the point of these kids giving up their time, unless it is for fun? That’s fine, but in terms of developing the sport it isn’t going to get us anywhere.
Stephen Baggaley Table Tennis: coach to GB No2 Andrew Baggaley
I coach my brother Andrew, and we are the lucky ones because we coach and play in the professional Bundesliga in Germany. But there are only two or three British players who can do that and now below that small group, there is nothing, and there will be no chance for anyone to progress.
To stop funding a sport entirely is a statement, really. All sports should have been given something in the name of legacy.
The way they have treated table tennis makes you look like a backwater sport. We are a so-called minority sport, but we are the second biggest, in terms of participation, in the world. When we have kids in the future who want to go into the sport, there will be nothing there.
Right now, young junior internationals won’t get any funding at all, and will find it very difficult to progress. The message us quite clear: they obviously don’t care at UK Sport about nurturing a middle tier who could come through and establish a legacy.
Colin Nicholson Wrestling: Chief exec GB Wrestling
It’s going to be a challenge and wrestling now needs to look for alternative sources of funding to enable our athletes to train full-time.
They can’t get up to the standards required without doing that. We feel we have two athletes who are capable of medalling at Rio: Olga Butkevich and Yana Stadnik.
It is too early to say exactly how we are going to get our athletes around the world to tournaments and train and obviously it is going to be very challenging. UK Sport has said it is not a ‘No, never’ decision, and there is the chance for it to be reviewed.
We have a review point in a year and may be able to gain funding for our athletes at that stage.

