http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604265/s/42cd79a1/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0C113742380CWWE0EUK0Etour0E20A150EWhy0Ethe0EBritish0Ejust0Ecant0Eget0Eenough0Eof0EAmerican0Ewrestling0Bhtml/story01.htm
WWE UK tour 2015: Why the British just can't get enough of American wrestling
By Rik Henderson
6:15PM GMT 28 Jan 2015
Comments
The WWE will once again embark on one of its bi-annual tours of UK arenas in April, with tickets selling like hot cakes to huge crowds of British (and Irish) fans.
It has successfully launched the WWE Network online streaming service in the UK – a Netflix for wrestling nuts, if you like.
And Sky has again paid significant sums to continue its exclusive right to broadcast the brand’s main shows, including Raw and Smackdown, in the UK until 2019.
But why? Why is a “sport” that has its match results predetermined and scripted by enormous teams of behind-the-scenes writers and producers so popular? Why do Brits get so whipped into a frenzy over, at times, what is blatant American jingoism?
The answer, of course, is that it is cracking fun. Simple. At least, it has been since the late Nineties.
WWE embarrassed as wrestling match outcomes leaked online
WWE RAW wrestling, review
When Sky first brought the WWE’s programming to the UK in the early Nineties, our only experience of wrestling on TV in Britain often featured rotund men in their pants being hit by grannies (that's certainly how we remember it - see Big Daddy and Giant Haystacks below).
But the new shows were full of bold, brash wrestlers that seemed 7ft tall, at least on TV, and they could talk and rant as capably in front of a camera and out of the ring as they could clothesline an opponent in it.

Big Daddy: a British wrestler once famous for his 64-inch chest
However, it was still a bit silly – with garish costumes, ridiculous and often borderline xenophobic character premises, and a tendency to favour the dramatic over the art of wrestling itself. It was family fun and twee, but although the franchise still attracted die-hard fans in the UK, they were far, far fewer in number than today.
That all changed in 1997.
That was when what is known as the Attitude Era started. Spurred on by a hard-fought TV broadcasting rivalry with World Championship Wrestling (WCW), Vince McMahon, chairman and CEO of what was then known as the World Wrestling Federation (until a successful legal challenge by the World Wildlife Fund over the WWF acronym), hit on a formula that was to change the wrestling business forever.
Save for a few big names, older wrestlers were replaced with younger, faster, more aggressive counterparts, and that made a difference to the type of action in the ring.
But the sea change in attitude was perhaps more born out of it. And McMahon’s own transition to a central on-screen character effectively changed everything.

Giant Haystacks: another British great
Having previously just served as an occasional ring announcer or commentator, McMahon as CEO represented the establishment. His use of that mantel on camera created a fantastic, unpredictable period of programming that often alarmed and surprised audiences.
He was the instigator of the “Montreal Screwjob”, in which the enormously popular but WCW-bound Bret Hart was deliberate cheated out of winning the title in his hometown, much to the genuine surprise of Hart, resulting in him spitting in the face of the CEO live on TV.
Hart himself was not to be seen as part of the WWE again for over a decade, but the unscripted incident turned public opinion against McMahon, which he and the franchise realised they could use to their advantage.

The roster of wrestlers was soon to be split cleverly into those who rallied with the boss – this group was named The Corporation – and those who rebelled against it. This was to provide some of the most incredible and memorable storylines for all the main superstar wrestlers for several years.
McMahon himself embarked on an on-screen feud with the mightily popular “Stone Cold” Steve Austin, which ran for four years, starting with Austin performing his Stone Cold Stunner trademark move on the CEO after being presented with the WWE Championship belt.
In the intervening years, more and more outrageous stunts ensued. Austin famously poured cement into one of McMahon’s Corvettes on camera and sprayed The Corporation with beer from a truck he drove into the arena.
McMahon himself enlisted the aid of the debutant Big Show – another WCW defector – in a fight with Austin by having the 7ft behemoth climb through the centre of the ring. And he even controversially won the title himself during the Attitude Era, beating another of the anti-establishment rebels Triple H in the process.
There were also fights during funerals, takeovers of the rival WCW franchise by D-Generation X – a rebellious team lead by Triple H and Shawn Michaels – and the kidnapping of McMahon’s daughter, Stephanie. And all were on shows previously considered family viewing. But viewing figures went from strength to strength.
In fact, the shows grew so rapidly in popularity that McMahon and WWE eventually bought rival WCW and merged its stars and championship belts into his own events. In doing so, it effectively ended the Attitude Era as rosters expanded. But there’s no denying the period’s legacy lives on. Even today the WWE’s storylines, stars and themes owe much to the invention and innovation of the late Nineties.
Wrestlers during the four or so years were being hit by chairs and baseball bats, falling off giant cages, being slammed through tables and taking massive hits by leaping off 8ft high ladders on to opponents. Much more blood was being spilled too – most often because wrestlers would take a razor blade into the ring and cut an eyebrow when watching eyes were off them.
And while stricter health and safety legislation has perhaps curbed some of the more crazy stunts and on-screen bloodshed, the WWE continues to recycle the same anti-authority storylines, violent undertones and strictly adhere to Vince McMahon’s formula ever since. Indeed, today the boss’s “princess” daughter Stephanie McMahon has taken over from where he left off.
She is the head of a similar ruling class, The Authority, with her on-screen husband and former rebel Triple H at her side. And the most popular wrestlers stand in opposition. It genuinely feels as if a new Attitude Era is on the horizon.
Since the late Nineties, the WWE franchise has grown into one of the world’s largest universal and strangely addictive soap operas. Could it be that a new generation of fans, including thousands in the UK, may be about to witness its second golden age?
Six WWE wrestlers you should know
1. Daniel Bryan

Bryan is the current poster boy of the WWE and an unlikely one at that. Small, yet fast across and around the ring, he was previously seen as a mid-card jobber – a position where a wrestler is often used as fodder for a more popular star. However, thanks to the latest anti-establishment storylines and the adoption of a cunningly simple chant for fans to use (“Yes! Yes! Yes!”) he rapidly rose to be the biggest star of the franchise. He has also recently returned from a long-time injury, so his fan base has grown even further.
2. Bray Wyatt

A weird and interesting character, Bray Wyatt hasn’t got the build of the modern-day WWE star but is possibly the best wrestler on camera currently in the business. His character was originally played as the head of an odd hill-billy cult that is disrupting the WWE and the horror-themed undertones made him more three-dimensional than most of the superstars on the roster. It elevated him into a star in his own right and now that his group is split, he is a main event star.
3. The Rock

One of the central figures of the Attitude Era, The Rock, otherwise known as Dwayne Johnson, became such a massive household name for his great on-screen monologues that he made a natural and successful leap into movies. He occasionally returns to the WWE – most often when he has a film to plug – and is always warmly welcomed by the crowd.
4. Stone Cold Steve Austin

Sadly no longer able to wrestle, Stone Cold Steve Austin started on rival wrestling franchise WCW but ended up being one of the major reasons why WWE beat its rival into submission. His no-care attitude, in-ring beer swilling and constant disregard for Vince McMahon’s authority made him the most popular wrestler that’s ever set foot in the ring.
5. The Undertaker

The longest standing member of the WWE roster, The Undertaker had a ludicrous premise in the franchise originally – that he was risen from the dead – and an even worse purple costume. However, his appeal has lasted for 24 years so far and he continues to wrestle, although less regularly these days. That’s partly down to constant reinvention – at one point he was a badass biker – but mainly thanks to his in-ring skills.
6. Triple H

Originally one of the more laughable characters on his debut – Hunter Hearst Helmsley (real name Paul Levesque) was a posh dandy in jodhpurs – but when the Attitude Era started he soon became the muscled technical wrestler Triple H and leader of the establishment-kicking D-Generation X team. More recently, since his body struggles with the demands of wrestling, he has been part of the authority he originally rebelled against, with his on-screen wife Stephanie McMahon, being the daughter of CEO Vince. She has become the main heel (villain) of the current generation.
Rik Henderson is a Senior editor of News & Features at
