http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568315/s/4481176e/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Carsenal0C114772970CMonaco0E0A0EArsenal0E20EChampions0ELeague0Elast0E160Esecond0Eleg0Ematch0Ereport0EAgony0Efor0EArsene0EWenger0Eas0EArsenal0Ecrash0Eout0Bhtml/story01.htm
Monaco 0 Arsenal 2, Champions League last 16 second leg, match report: Agony for Arsene Wenger as Arsenal crash out
By Henry Winter, Football Correspondent, at Stade Louis II, Monaco
11:59PM GMT 17 Mar 2015
Comments
Arsenal gave everything here, gave absolutely every last drop of sweat, launching attack after attack, scoring through Olivier Giroud and Aaron Ramsey as their fans beseeched “one more for the Arsenal”. One more goal would have taken Arsenal into the Champions League record books and the quarter-finals, yet it proved elusive and their European dream died early. Again.
At the final whistle, disbelief fought with despair to take over Arsenal hearts and minds. Giroud sat on his haunches, looking stunned at the lack of reward for his and his team-mates’ efforts. The outstanding Santi Cazorla, who finished as the most attacking anchorman in Arsenal history, just stood there, shaking his head. Cazorla had recorded 145 touches, a total that the excited statisticians revealed was the highest by a Premier League player in the Champions League since Javier Mascherano for Liverpool in 2009. Even with Cazorla passing and passing, creating chances with still ball and moving, Arsenal failed.

A stony-faced Arsène Wenger walked straight off, struggling to believe such weight of pressure had not yielded that extra goal. Wenger was criticised afterwards by Monaco’s coach, Leonardo Jardim, for not shaking his hand. The Arsenal manager can be a graceless loser at times but there has to be a tweak of sympathy for his decision to return to the dressing room rather than wait for Jardim to conclude his lengthy backslapping with his players.
Wenger looked almost drained of life, almost sickened by the outcome on a pitch where his career first gathered pace and now appears to be slowing. The obvious symmetry must be painful for Wenger to behold. He was so close. Just one goal.
In those frantic final 11 minutes after Ramsey scored, Wenger’s old club were on the edge of a total meltdown. Their clearances were hacked, hurried and frequently directed to Arsenal players. Monaco were a listing yacht, taking on water, their passage to safety lit by a distress signal.
• Welbeck's control lets him down too often - and four other lessons • Arsenal's agonising exit - as it happened • Ozil under fire over shirt-swap • How the players rated in Monte Carlo
Wenger pushed Per Mertesacker up, Giroud continued to menace while young Héctor Bellerín came of age on the right, tackling, raiding and crossing.
Cazorla kept conducting the orchestra, while Mesut Özil put in some good balls and one huge, lung-breaking sprint back to help stifle a rare Monaco break.
So alarmed were Monaco that a member of their coaching staff sneaked from the dugout with three minutes remaining and demanded the ball from a ball-boy, secreting it under a seat, so eating up a few seconds when the ball next went out in that part of the pitch as the ball-boy scurried around for a spare.
Tough night: Alexis Sanchez on defensive duty in Monaco
When the final whistle went, the Monaco staff and subs dashed on to the pitch, sharing the moment of relief and joy with those who had somehow held out. Ricardo Carvalho marched towards a shattered Özil and requested his shirt. The German struggled to slip it off smoothly as the sweat made it cling to his body. Özil has his critics, and his languid style hints at a lack of urgency, but he kept recycling the ball and building moves as the clock ticked down.
Controversy: Mesut Ozil was criticised for swapping shirts at half-time
Fifty yards away, the away fans saluted their players. Arsenal’s travelling throng knew that the players could have done little more here. Arsenal’s first-leg naivety at the Emirates, failing to keep their defensive shape and composure and conceding a late third, ultimately cost them.
For all the admiration stirred by Arsenal’s raging against the latest dying of their European light, the inquests will not be too kind.
Shady: U2 were in attendance in Monaco
Let the record show that Arsenal have not reached the quarter-finals of the Champions League for five successive seasons, a period when their bitter rivals, Tottenham Hotspur, actually managed it once. Let the legitimate point be emphasised again that Arsenal are no closer to challenging seriously for the Champions League or Premier League under Wenger, despite the handsome investment in the squad. Wenger’s stewardship of the club deserves to be questioned.
Unfortunately, a culture has grown up at the Emirates where fourth is fine, where the powers-that-be such as the chief executive Ivan Gazidis never question the underachieving Wenger properly. Arsenal’s FA Cup win last season was a special occasion, and a welcome trophy after nine years, and they could retain it, but Arsenal historically have always been more than a cup team. They chase titles. Not under Wenger. Champions League nirvana seems even more distant than ever. Premier League ambitions continue to be beyond them, lacking the resolve and game plans of Jose Mourinho’s Chelsea. Wenger has become the nearly man, the wallflower while others party.
There is a danger that events here will grow in legend, a gallant failure masking another season of under-achievement in the competitions that count most. For a while Arsenal and their countless fans here dared to dream. After half an hour of cautious getting-to-know-you, Arsenal began to make their move.
Slipping away: The ball squirms free from Danny Welbeck
Danny Welbeck went on a storming run down the left. Giroud cut the ball back to Cazorla, whose volley was blocked by Wallace. Up on the television balcony, Paul Scholes lent against the railings, staring at the action. His fellow ITV analyst, Emmanuel Petit, stood close by. To think they once examined the robustness of each
other’s shin-pads rather than the strength of each other’s opinions.
Shot of hope: Olivier Giroud fires Arsenal ahead on the night
Down below, even the Arsenal substitutes were helping. Ramsey quickly broke off from warming up to field a loose ball, flicking it to Cazorla for the throw-in. The deserved breakthrough arrived after 36 minutes.
Alexis Sánchez transferred the ball to Cazorla, who found Welbeck 25 yards out, centrally placed. As Aymen Abdennour dived in, Welbeck steered the ball down the inside-left channel for Giroud, whose shot was blocked by Monaco’s keeper, Danijel Subasic. The ball flew up and caught Giroud in the face. All Giroud could think of was getting his right foot to the loose ball, thumping it into the roof of the net before Monaco could recover.
Did you know Telegraph Sport has an ?

As the ball billowed the net, the sheer scale of Arsenal’s support could be seen in three sides of Stade Louis II. Arsenal were energised, believing in themselves more and sensing Monaco’s vulnerability. Welbeck unleashed a shot that deflected wide off the legs of the prostrate Abdennour. Subasic denied Giroud, Welbeck and, as the second half got under way, reacted athletically to an Özil free-kick.
With the clock ticking ever louder, Wenger began turning to the bench. He sent on Ramsey for Francis Coquelin, then Theo Walcott for Welbeck. After 79 minutes, Walcott fired a shot against a post, and looked around in frustration, fearing the moment was lost. He had forgotten that Monaco were now so rattled. Layvin Kurzawa swept his clearance straight to Ramsey, who slotted his shot past Subasic.
Clinical: Aaron Ramsey scores Arsenal's second goal
Arsenal fans celebrated wildly while Ramsey was gesturing to his team-mates to get back to the halfway line. “One more for the Arsenal” chorused the visitors. They almost did it. Cazorla dinked in a free-kick and Giroud’s flick at the far post was clawed away by Subasic before the final whistle ended Arsenal’s hopes.
