Scotland defender Andrew Robertson says 'England were better than us, but we never played to our best'
By Ewing Grahame
10:30PM GMT 19 Nov 2014
Comments
It may have been attributable to modesty or it could have been down to the fact that, as a defender, Hull City full-back Andrew Robertson is more preventer than predator.
Either way, the 20-year-old was not in celebratory mood when the subject of his first international goal was raised on Wednesday.
A clinical finish provided the perfect pay-off to a solo run and one-two with Johnny Russell as Scotland briefly harboured hopes of restoring parity against England on Tuesday.
Perhaps, if Wayne Rooney had not scored his second of the evening two minutes later, Robertson may have derived more satisfaction from his own effort. As it was, he was more inclined to dwell on his deficiencies. “I thought I could have done better personally in a defensive sense,” he said.
“First and foremost I am a defender. So if I could have swapped the goal for a clean sheet I would have taken it.
Gordon celebrates Scotland recall
FA apologises for fans' offensive chants
Celtic Park provides raucousness - but little else
Wilshere can be England's midfield quarter-back
“Obviously, I was delighted to see it hit the back of the net. It was a proud moment for me and my family. After the game I was just disappointed but, maybe for that minute or two, I could just enjoy the feeling and hope that I had helped us get back into the game.”
Robertson regards the 3-1 defeat as a wake-up call for the Scotland squad, which may have begun to believe its own hype.
The hard fact, though, is that Roy Hodgson selected his starting 11 from the top seven clubs in the Premier League while Scotland began with seven Championship players and brought on another two.
“On Tuesday night, the English players were a better standard than us. But we never played to our best,” Robertson said.
“Hopefully, we can get a shot at them again and show what we can do. They will be in for a much tighter game next time but, on this occasion, their standard was much higher. There were a lot of fans and media saying we were a good team, but we knew we still had work to do. We have got off to a good start in the euro 2016 campaign and the priority over is that we qualify for France. If we do that, then I’m sure Tuesday night will be forgotten”.

