http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568364/s/44a4721e/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ccricket0Cinternational0Cnewzealand0C114871810CMartin0EGuptill0Ehits0EWorld0ECup0Erecord0E2370Eto0Ehelp0ENew0EZealand0Ebeat0EWest0EIndies0Bhtml/story01.htm
Martin Guptill hits World Cup record 237 to help New Zealand beat West Indies
By Scyld Berry
8:28AM GMT 21 Mar 2015
Comments
It has to be a prime candidate for the most expensive mistake in a cricket World Cup, or even in the whole history of white-ball cricket, as it paved the way for New Zealand to reach the semi-finals, for the seventh time in 11 tournaments.
Martin Guptill, New Zealand’s tall 28 year-old opening batsman, had scored four runs against West Indies when he clipped a catch to square-leg, where Marlon Samuels dropped it. Three hours later Guptill had scored 237 – the highest innings ever in World Cups – and he was still not out.
Guptill’s was also by far the highest innings in any World Cup knock-out game. The previous highest had been Adam Gilchrist’s 149 in 2007 against Sri Lanka, arguably the best of all World Cup innings because it was made in a final.
• Brilliant Brendon McCullum leads NZ to brink of history • South Africa 'Klusener Complex' is being laid to rest • Pakistan left to rue dropped catches as Australia advance
New Zealand’s captain Brendon McCullum, who has played similar innings though not of the same length of a full 50 overs, called it “sublime” and “probably the best innings I’ve ever seen live in this form of the game.”
What made Guptill’s double-century so special, in front of a capacity home crowd in Wellington, was that it consisted of batting AND power-hitting.
New Zealand were full of nerves early on as they saw their chance of a lifetime fading after McCullum departed quickly, and again when their rock Kane Williamson was caught. Had Guptill got out then – had Samuels caught him – New Zealand could have been dismissed for a total within range of West Indies.
Martin Guptill stepped up a gear after a steady first hundred
So Guptill’s first hundred runs required serious batting – all of his 11 sixes came later – and involved only one error, when on 86 he chipped to long-on, and hung his head in disappointment, but the ball fell short. The “Cake Tin”, being mainly a rugby stadium, has very long straight boundaries but short to either side.
Guptill’s first century took him 35 overs, to the brink of the batting powerplay, and the features of this half of his innings were his willingness to play straight and eschew the fancy stuff, and his running between wickets. Often he hit the ball to mid-on, put his head down and ran.
Guptill had gone into this game after scoring a fifty and a hundred in his two previous World Cup games. Before that he had been struggling, not least because of a technical glitch: when he tried to drive through the offside off the front foot, his foot went down the pitch, not across towards the line of the ball. This tendency has kept his Test average down to a modest 29, but it was something West Indies never tested.
West Indies made exactly the same mistake as England had done against Bangladesh: they sat back after 20 overs, opting for containment instead of pressing for wickets, and thereby allowed their opponents to construct the right platform for the assault after 35 overs. A quick blast by Jerome Taylor, who had only four overs in his opening spell, might have saved their bowlers and fielders a lot of stiff necks.
During his partnership of 143 with Taylor, of which Taylor contributed an out-of-touch 42, Guptill got New Zealand back on course and buoyed their spirits. By the time the batting powerplay was taken after 35 overs, Guptill had reached base camp – 100 off 111 balls – and was ready to strike out for Everest.
And boy, did he strike. The West Indian pace bowlers bowled in exactly the right spot for Guptill – straight, that is, not wide of his offstump – to hit in his favourite arc, from long-off to deep square-leg, and his long levers were employed to full effect. His fitness was exceptional too: although he had run so many hard yards, he did not lose his shape, through fatigue, when going aerial.
Martin Guptill celebrates his double-century
In these last 15 overs Guptill was to score 137 off 52 balls with 12 fours and 11 sixes. In the course of his hitting he reached only the sixth double-century in one-day internationals, after Sachin Tendulkar, who did it first; Virender Sehwag; Rohit Sharma, who has done it twice; and Chris Gayle, who had trashed Zimbabwe for 215 earlier in this World Cup
Guptill’s favourite six came off a full toss by Andre Russell, which he hit on to the roof of the stadium. The only person who had previously reached those heights was New Zealand’s batting coach, the stocky Craig McMillan.
In the last ten overs New Zealand hit 153 runs, the second most in ODIs. South Africa earlier this year had hit 163 off the last ten overs against the same naïve bowling, that of West Indies, led by a captain who, while gifted, is far too young for the job – and Jason Holder, 23, often positioned himself in the outfield at the death, too remote from his bowlers.
When Guptill reached 213, after 48 overs, Gayle strolled up and had a word, obviously urging Guptill not to break his World Cup record. As he plundered 20 off the final over, Guptill did not seem to hear.
“Yes, it’s a pretty good feeling, to be fair,” Guptill said. “Obviously there is pressure but you’ve just got to try and put it behind you and just watch the ball as hard as you can and play it accordingly. That’s all I tried to do today and luckily it paid off.
“Brendon does his thing at the top - it didn’t quite come off today – and then Kane and I put on a good little partnership, and then Ross (Taylor) batted very well through the middle partnership as well, then Grant (Elliott) and Ronchs finished it off pretty well.” You would never have guessed that Guptill outscored his partners 237-146.
Of the drop-in pitch, which had been used earlier in the tournament, Guptill added: “It was quite tough to start on, but once you get yourself in and get used to it the runs can come easy.” That was nearer the mark.
As cricket never bites anyone in the backside once when it can do it twice, Samuels was himself at the receiving end of an outstanding catch, nonchalantly held at third man and in his left hand by Daniel Vettori. Gayle smote 61 off 33 balls, before West Indies were bundled out in only 30.3 overs to lose by 143 runs.
