Six Nations reached perfect climax with Ireland rising to challenge on sensational afternoon
By Ian McGeechan
3:04PM GMT 22 Mar 2015
Comments
I have heard all the arguments against staggered kick-offs on the final day, but you cannot tell me that that was not one sensational afternoon of rugby. People will be talking about it for years and with good reason. The drama just increased as the afternoon wore on, with teams forced to change their approaches to try to secure a specific margin of victory. One game was impacting on the next. In that respect, you could say it favoured the side going last but I don’t think it was unfair. If you had asked them beforehand, both Wales and Ireland would have taken those results. It was simply sensational.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Italy 20 Wales 61
Who could have foreseen, when Italy grabbed a 13-11 lead in the first half in Rome thanks to Giovanbattista Venditti’s try, that the afternoon would take such a dramatic turn? I really thought Wales had blown it at that point but the injury to Leigh Halfpenny, ironically, changed the match.
• Six Nations 2015: Team of the tournament • Ireland have now proved themselves ready to take on the world • Five things we learned on Super Saturday
Liam Williams went to full-back and for me he was the big difference. He changed the dynamic of Wales’s attack. Italy had had the edge at the scrum and the maul in the first half but Wales managed to make it a much more open game in the second, and with their ability to counter-attack, Italy just imploded.
There had been signs that Italy were there for the taking. Their defence was sluggish for Jamie Roberts’ first-half try. But they really lost the plot in the second half. A couple of 50-50 calls, a couple of handling errors, trying to play too much rugby in poor areas – perhaps a lack of onfield discipline and leadership with Sergio Parisse injured – and Wales began scoring at will.
Wales' Jamie Roberts scores the first try of the game in Rome
A quick tap penalty from Rhys Webb and Liam Williams came roaring through on a line which Halfpenny would never have run. Williams then sent George North over for his first of the afternoon before Andrea Masi got himself sent to the sin-bin.
Sensing blood, Wales released their shackles and went for it. It was sensational. Dan Biggar also deserves huge credit. He controlled the second half superbly, setting a brilliant tempo.
Wales’s tries all came from counter-attacks or from mauls, freeing up their big strike runners Roberts, Jonathan Davies, North and the two Williams. Not to mention their back row, with Sam Warburton to the fore. Even then, that late try from Leonardo Sarto, brilliantly converted by replacement fly-half Luciano Orquera, suggested that perhaps it was not to be. And so it proved.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Scotland 10 Ireland 40
Ireland deserve immense credit for playing as well as they did given what had just occurred in Rome.
After the criticism they received for not managing to convert possession and territory into points at the Millennium Stadium seven days earlier, they mixed up their attack nicely at Murrayfield, playing quite an open game in the first half, going two passes out, and getting players into position really early. It was far more like Joe Schmidt’s Leinster team used to play.
• England's gallant effort must not obscure deeper problems • England 55 France 35, player ratings
They raced into an early lead with Paul O’Connell’s try coming a few patient phases after Robbie Henshaw was released by a perfect backs move.
Then in the second half Ireland went narrower again, playing a driving game with one-off runners. It was subtly different and answered many of their critics who said they were one-dimensional in Cardiff.
To play that way you have to be really accurate at the breakdown, try to stay on the front foot. But they were smart, too, sometimes committing one or two men to the ruck, sometimes piling in en masse and securing a turnover. Scotland helped as their first up tackles were not stopping the Irish runners. Jared Payne’s try, from a driving maul followed by a couple of quick phases, was a good example.
Paul O'Connell dives over to score Ireland's opening try
Scotland, who I thought were the better side for the 20 minutes before half-time, ultimately helped their visitors to such a big score, trying to play far too much rugby in the wrong areas. They took the wooden spoon in the end but I don’t think they deserved to. As a team under Vern Cotter they have come on a huge amount. They are attacking with far more purpose. They just need to be more accurate.
As for Ireland, they proved worthy winners. Jonathan Sexton may have had another so-so game yesterday, missing three penalties, but he remains so important to Ireland. As does Conor Murray, his half-back partner. Ireland proved yesterday they could mix it up, introducing width and an offloading game. But they can also play it tight, they are physical at the breakdown, and have a great kicking game.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
England 55 France 35
And so to Twickenham. Incredible. To score 55 points against France and end up disappointed? That was some game.
Both teams clearly wanted to play rugby – England because they had to and France because they had nothing to lose. There were plenty of mistakes, sure, but what yesterday showed above all was that northern hemisphere sides can play open, attacking rugby.
In some ways I think teams such as England do themselves a disservice by deciding before a game whether or not they can play that way; by starting out too defensive. Would England be smashed if they tried to play a similar attacking game against the All Blacks? Not necessarily.
Chris Robshaw battles through the French defence
England are as strong up front as New Zealand are. They have huge physicality at the breakdowns – Dan Cole was immense in that regard yesterday. But they need to be more accurate.
Early on against France they were ragged, committing too many or too few to the breakdown. George Ford did not kick that well early on either. But he grew into the game and the way he released his backs for some of those tries was brilliant.
England got their support players into better positions earlier. They have outstanding strike runners and huge physicality. Ben Youngs was man of the match by a mile; sensational.
England will look back on those first 20 minutes against Scotland last weekend and rue their missed opportunities but any championship that ends with the result still in the balance on the last line-out of the last match in the last minute is a belter.
I thought that was an accurate reflection of how closely matched Ireland, England and Wales are at the moment.

