Six Nations 2015: Best and worst of European rugby feast
By Steve James
10:18PM GMT 21 Mar 2015
Comments
Best forward
Wales’ Alun-Wyn Jones. He was quiet in the first match against England, which meant he was probably only worth 7/10. Thereafter he was magnificent, especially against Ireland and France. The relentless warrior and horribly bad loser.
Welsh Warrior: Alun-Wyn Jones (REX FEATURES)
Best back
Not a tournament for backs in general, until the shackles came off at the death, but England’s Jonathan Joseph was a revelation, even if one of his finest performances came on the wing, where I feel he could easily end up. Jamie Roberts was also immense, nearly all the full backs were influential at one stage or another, and both the half-backs from Ireland - Jonathan Sexton and Conor Murray - and from England - George Ford and Ben Youngs - had their moments of influence. It was good to see George North back to his best in Rome
Breakthrough star
Joseph again. Not bad considering that he was not even supposed to be in the squad before the tournament’s start. Honourable mentions for two centres, Scotland’s Mark Bennett and Italy’s Luca Morisi, and for Wales, hooker Scott Baldwin.
Rising Star: Jonathan Joseph (GETTY)
Best coach
Tricky. The easy answer is Joe Schmidt, who is lauded wherever he goes. But Warren Gatland and Stuart Lancaster get an awful amount of unwarranted stick in their respective countries, especially for not playing exciting rugby, when they actually play a lot more rugby than Schmidt’s Ireland do, as they demonstrated very capably on the final day.
The answer here is certainly not Philippe Saint-Andre, whose selections remain bewildering, and Scotland’s Vern Cotter has learnt some harsh lessons this term. Schmidt it is, but Gatland and Lancaster, in their different ways, have done much for Wales and England.
Inspiration: Joe Schmidt (REX FEATURES)
Best try
There were a few to choose from the final day. Sam Warburton’s for Wales and Vincent Debaty’s for France were probably the best. Until then I would have picked Joseph’s against Wales, for England’s 20 phases leading up to it.

Best match
Wales v Ireland for its raging intensity and defensive excellence until the last round. England and France then produced an epic. The other two were mismatches.
Cracker: Wales vs Ireland was a fantastic match (REX FEATURES)
Worst match
Italy v France. Absolute, utter dross.
Biggest lesson learnt
North’s concussion against England, when he shockingly remained on the field, has pricked the game into further action on this vitally important issue.
One change for next year…
Nothing. Bonus points? Nope. Have all the last-day fixtures at the same time? Nope. It was stupendously exciting, and let television have its say. They pay rather handsomely for the privilege.
And why so much talk about the unfairness of those final-day fixtures now? There did not seem to be the same chatter last year when England were disadvantaged. Funny that.
Irish eyes are smiling: Fans at Murrayfield (GETTY)
The team best placed for the World Cup is…
England. They will be at home and because they have beaten both their two main Pool opponents, Wales and Australia, this season. They will get players back and I think will play a conservative but effective brand of rugby in the tournament. They could face Ireland in the semi-final, and though they faltered horribly in Dublin, I would still back them to win that at Twickenham.
Champions Ireland have much cause to disagree with the contention that England are best placed. They hammered England in Dublin, but their defeat in Cardiff exposed fault lines, not least that their half backs can be hounded into fatal mistakes.
On home turf: England will pose a real threat at the World Cup (REX FEATURES)
Wales will worry England. The stuff about them getting better the longer they are together is clearly true, and they will have plenty of time together before the Rugby World Cup. Their kicking game could trouble England and they showed a new attacking dimension against Italy.
France showed what they can do at Twickenham yesterday. It was too little, too late, but they remain dangerous. They were in a mess before the 2011 Rugby World Cup, remember.
Scotland? They will only need to beat Samoa to make it out of their Pool, but that could even be a problem given their supine performance against Ireland. Deserved the wooden spoon.
Italy? Their second-half capitulation against Wales was an utter disgrace. Enough said.
Finally, thank you
To Paul O’Connell, if indeed this is his last Six Nations, as expected. Last year it was BOD, now POC, two of Ireland’s finest. Remarkably, it may be that Ireland miss O’Connell more than they have missed O’Driscoll.
Captain Fantastic: Paul O'Connell with the Six Nations trophy (ACTION)

