http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570377/s/44a6e126/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csponsored0Csport0Crugby0Etrytracker0C113971260CEngland0Ev0EFrance0EAction0Efrom0ETwickenham0Eas0EStuart0ELancasters0Eside0Eface0ELes0EBleus0Ein0Epictures0Bhtml/story01.htm
England v France: Action from Twickenham as Stuart Lancaster's side face Les Bleus, in pictures
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570377/s/44a427a8/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Csixnations0C114781710CSix0ENations0Efixtures0Efinal0Eround0E20A150Bhtml/story01.htm
Six Nations fixtures: final round 2015
By Telegraph Sport
9:00AM GMT 21 Mar 2015
Comments
England, Ireland and Wales, the top three in the 2015 Six Nations Championship after four rounds with three victories each, go into their final games of the season on Saturday level on six points.
After Saturday's win in the Calcutta Cup, England are top because of a positive points difference of 37, Ireland second on +33 and Wales' third +12.
The first game of the day kicks off in Rome with Wales needing victory by 26 points to top the table with Ireland and England yet to play. Ireland start next at Murrayfield needing to win by at least five points to overtake England and perhaps more to jump ahead of Wales.
England then run out at Twickenham last with the enormous adavantage, just like Ireland in Paris last year, of knowing precisely what they have to do to end the day above Ireland and Wales.
A victory for France over England by at least eight points would be good enough for the fourth-placed side to win the title if both Wales and Ireland lose.
Italy v Wales, Stadio Olimpico, Saturday 12.30pm
In seven visits to Rome in the Six Nations since 2001, Wales have won five and lost two, their last defeat coming in 2007. The ony time they have managed to record a victory by 26 points or more came in 2005 when Mike Ruddock's Grand Slam winners ran in six tries to win 38-8. Warren Gatland has made two changes to the XV that began the 23-16 victory over Ireland at the Millennium Stadium with Aaron Jarvis and Rob Evans, who came off the bench and played well at the weekend, replacing the injured Samson Lee and Gethin Jenkins.

The head coach knows that the kick-off time puts his team at a disadvantage, but is not disheartened. "The challenge to us is to go to Italy and win, and try and win by a significant margin, but we know that's an extremely tough ask and the first job will be to simply get the result," he said. "Italy build their confidence around the scrum and line-out drive and that's an area we are going to have to compete strongly in at the start of the match." Gatland has packed his bench with ball carriers, Gareth Davies joining them in place of Mike Phillips to feed them, with a view to exploiting Italy's tiring players later in the game.
Italy L McLean,L Sarto, L Morisi, A Masi, G Venditti, K Haimona, E Gori; M Rizzo,L Ghiraldini (capt), M Castrogiovanni, G Biagi, J Furno,F Minto, M Bergamasco,S Vunisa. Replacements A Manici, A De Marchi, D Chistolini, Q Geldenhuys, RoBarbieri, G Palazzani, L Orquera, E Bacchin.
Wales L Halfpenny, G North, J Davies, J Roberts, L Williams, D Biggar, R Webb; R Evans, S Baldwin, A Jarvis, L Charteris, A-W Jones, D Lydiate, S Warburton, T Faletau. Replacements K Owens, R Gill, S Andrews, J Ball, J Tipuric, G Davies, R Priestland, S Williams.
Rob Evans (left) celebrates victory over Ireland with Leigh Halfpenny
Scotland v Ireland, Murrayfield, Saturday 2.30pm
Though overall Scotland have an honourable home record against Ireland in the Four/Five/Six Nations - 34 wins from 60 matches - more recently in the Centenary Quaich, the Scots have won only two of the past seven, including the most recent in 2013, after that remarkable undefeated 11-game run from 1989-99. Ireland's last three victories in Edinburgh, in 2007, 2009 and 2011, have been by narrow margins - 18-21, 15-22 and 18-19 respectively - and they will need more than that to exert maximum pressure on England in the hope of winning their first back-to-back titles since 1949.

Rob Kearney, the Ireland full-back, is rightfully wary of taking Scotland for granted, knowing they will fight to the last to avoid earning their fourth wooden spoon in 11 years.
"The points difference is out of our control," he said. "We won’t be focusing in any way on the outcome, or points difference or anything like that. We have to be really professional and treat this just as a one-off game. As soon as you start talking points difference you disrespect the Scottish. That’s something we don’t want to do, and if we do you’ll be punished for it. We certainly won’t be thinking or talking about any points difference. We’ll be going to win the game, and however we do that and by whatever margin – be it one, two, three – that’ll be our focus.”
Scotland S Hogg, D Fife, M Bennett, M Scott , To Seymour, F Russell, G Laidlaw; R Grant, R Ford, E Murray, J Hamilton, J Gray, A Ashe, B Cowan, D Denton. Replacements F Brown, A Dickinson, G Cross, T Swinson, R Harley, S Hidalgo-Clyne), GTonks, T Visser.
Ireland R Kearney; T Bowe, J Payne, R Henshaw, L Fitzgerald; J Sexton, C Murray; C Healy, R Best, M Ross, D Toner, P O'Connell, P O'Mahony, S O'Brien, J Heaslip. Replacements S Cronin, J McGrath, M Moore, I Henderson, J Murphy, E Reddan, I Madigan, F Jones.

Rob Kearney takes on Jamie Roberts
England v France, Twickenham, Saturday 5pm
Two home defeats for England v France in the tournament in the past 13 meetings bode well for Stuart Lancaster's team for whom victory is essential and with their record of top try-scorers in the first four matches, 11 compared with the six of their nearest rival Italy, an upset looks unlikely. But France's defensive record - only two tries conceded so far - might be an impediment if England need to rack up a score to overhaul Wales and/or Ireland.

James Haskell believes England are strong enough to exploit their fortune at being the day's last match and meet whatever target Ireland or Wales set them. "The positive is that we created so many chances [against Scotland]," hesaid. "It's been a long, long time since we made so many clean line breaks.
"If the other teams set us a big target, we can be confident that we have the firepower to get there. You look at our back line and we've got pace, footwork, ability to finish off tries. When it all clicks, when that ruthless edge comes, we will be a very difficult side to play."
"To win the Six Nations is almost a second prize, but it's still amazing because it's such a rare thing. You can go your whole career without winning one.

James Haskell believes England have the firepower to do whatever it takes to win the title
England M Brown, A Watson, J Joseph, L Burrell , J Nowell, G Ford , B Youngs ; J Marler, D Hartley , D Cole , G Parling, C Lawes, J Haskell , C Robshaw (capt), B Vunipola. Replacements T Youngs, M Vunipola, K Brookes, N Easter, T Wood, R Wigglesworth, D Cipriani, B Twelvetrees.
France S Spedding, Y Huget, G Fickou, M Mermoz, N Nakaitaci, J Plisson, S Tillous-Borde; V Debaty, G Guirado, N Mas, A Flanquart, Y Maestri, T Dusautoir (capt), B Le Roux, L Goujon. Replacements B Kayser, R Slimani, U Atonio, R Taofifenua, D Chouly, R Kockott, R Tales, M Bastareaud.
