Commonwealth Games star Claudia Fragapane admits she likes to 'show off' to judges
By Jonathan Liew
4:00PM BST 18 Aug 2014
Comments
More than anything else, it is the face. The face of Claudia Fragapane as she steps up to begin her floor routine at the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow. When she steps forward, there is no guarantee that she will win the gold medal. There is no guarantee that she will win a medal at all.
The previous day, she won gold in the team all-around. Now, she is on her own. A few minutes ago, she fell off the beam, which almost wrecked her chances completely. And yet there is no fear or even placidity in her expression. It is, instead, a look of pure fire. A don’t-mess-with-me face. A this-is-my-time face.
“It’s just my focusing face,” she will explain to me later. “I do look pretty scary. Like I’m about to punch someone.”
What happens over the next couple of minutes is one of those pieces of sport that punches you in a soft and tender place. Fragapane vaults, somersaults, wriggles, plunges: same as anybody else really, but at the same time completely different. These are leaps and tumbles and wriggles and plunges that no British woman has ever attempted in competition – the extra little twist or flick that turns a routine tumble into a leap of greatness.
“I’m actually quite bubbly and smiley,” she says. “But I only smile afterwards.”
Team GB eye world titles
Whitlock claims third gold of Games
Inspired English gymnasts revel in golden double
Jones ends career on golden high
Commonwealth Games day 11: as it happened
Fragapane floors her rivals to enter record books
At the end, Fragapane has won gold. By the end of the week, she has won four. Not only that, but she has turned the world of gymnastics upside down. Former British team captain Craig Heap declares that no other female gymnast in the world can match her. One respected gymnastics blogger declares it “the top routine in the world right now”.
Fragapane is only 16 years old. She has been competing at senior level for a matter of months. One of Britain’s most promising hopes for a gold medal at the Rio de Janeiro Olympics of 2016 is not yet old enough to drive.
A couple of weeks later, and Fragapane is sitting in her gym in Bristol. She escaped from the Commonwealth Games madness by taking a week’s holiday (“we went to Center Parcs, I didn’t really do that much”), and is back in training for the World Championships in China in October. “NO ADULTS ON GYM EQUIPMENT”, reads a sign on one wall. Not much chance of that.
Since she started at the age of six, Fragapane showed promise. Nevertheless, there was always something a bit special about her. The power she manages to generate from her 4ft 6in frame, for example, is astounding.
“She has a lot of fast-twitch muscles in her legs,” one of her coaches, Rory Weavers, explains. “That’s where the power comes from.”
Fragapane’s career is a team effort. Her mother, Teresa, is a former gymnast who had to give up the sport because of a lack of finance. Coach Weavers spent hours of his own spare time devising a conditioning programme tailored to Fragapane’s unique physiology.
Another coach, Helen Potter, the creative mastermind behind Fragapane’s floor routine, built the gym up from nothing after a catastrophic fire in the late 1980s, and now lives with her husband in a little flat above it. “You don’t do this to make money,” she says. “There’s no money in elite gymnastics. You do it because you love it.”
What you see on the television, then, is just the product of those years of toil, those years of people’s lives. “No one knows, really,” Fragapane says. “People that don’t know about gymnastics don’t know how hard it is. They think you just go to a competition, do a few flips. But it does take a lot of work. Some of my friends at school wouldn’t invite me to places because they knew I was always at gym. It takes so much time out of your life. Your hands get ripped.”
Then she dangles her wrist in my direction, showing off a set of perfectly manicured, crimson-painted nails. “My mum paid for these,” she says, and you remember with a start that she is still only 16, with everything that entails.
And so, in a way, our conversation is quite surreal: a mature discussion about the tribulations of elite sport fleetingly interspersed with the whims and neuroses of a child.
“I’m rubbish at maths,” she says. “I’m trying to scrape a C in my GCSEs. And I’m rubbish at directions. Even though I’ve been coming here for 10 years, I still don’t properly know how to get home.”
Or: “I like shopping. I like shopping with my mum, because she just has her hand in her pocket and gets me new clothes and stuff. She says I work hard, so I deserve it.”
Like most young people, Fragapane is happy, confident and expressive. And her floor routine, daring, ebullient and full of flair, is one of the most exciting things in the sport right now. Featuring a range of influences, from martial arts to street dance, it is a perfect reflection of the performer herself.
“I like showing off to the judges,” she says. “That’s in my personality. They’re sat there judging for hours and hours, so why not give them something to look at, and enjoy, and have fun with?”
It is this confidence and showmanship that make Fragapane a force to be reckoned with in the run-up to the Rio Olympics. The pacesetter in the women’s all-around is Simone Biles, of the United States: six months older, but with bags more experience. “A week ago I watched her floor routine,” Fragapane says. “I thought it was absolutely amazing. She’s one of the people who inspires me to do harder tumbles.” But can Biles do anything she cannot? “Hmmm. No, not really.”
And this is the irresistible blend of impulses within Fragapane: the bubbly adolescent with a rare competitive steel, the glutton for punishment who trains for 30 hours a week but loves nothing more than a spa weekend and a new set of nails, the dewy-eyed debutante who is still mature enough to be starting a coaching course next month. The gymnastics fangirl in awe of her rivals but equally sure she can beat them.
Remember the face. You might be seeing it quite a lot in future.

