Commonwealth Games 2014: Thrills, drama, and triumph – but please, BBC, help us with the judo
By Alan Tyers
10:55PM BST 24 Jul 2014
Comments
I’m not saying that judo is a confusing sport to watch on the television, but the BBC should definitely at least consider subtitles.
An early bout on day one featured the observation, “Yoko sutemi waza Colin”, and while the novice viewer was still trying to figure out if this was a new art happening from the former Mrs Lennon, and what Colin thought about it all, the commentary pressed on with a devastating combination attack of “Connie Ramsay producing two dropsy and an Aggie”.
Particularly when narrated by the wildly excitable Canadian pundit Niki Jenkins, a bewildering storm of judo jargon, much of it In Foreign, assaults the causal viewer.
It is quite splendid entertainment, every bit the match of the frantic pyjama grappling on display and proof positive that, while we all enjoyed London 2012, constant revision and practice viewing is sadly required if you want to have a clue what is going on in some of the more esoteric sports.
The more familiar cycling delivered some thrills, and Sir Wiggo, and signs that Sir Chris Hoy is becoming a pundit of the top rank.
England make hard work of Wales
Jason Statham diving at 1990 Commonwealth Games
Queen 'delighted' by Commonwealth Games baton puzzle
But as one surveys the Beeb’s groaning online and TV smorgasbord, it is often the rarer treats that entice.
The women’s under-48kg weightlifting delivered; in fact, as a TV sport, it can hardly be beaten.
It is elemental enough for anyone to understand (“can this one lift a heavier object than that one?”) and yet a never-ending labyrinth of interesting backstory, such as that of the all-female staffed, all-female athlete weightlifting academy outside Delhi, alma mater of the gold and silver medallists in Thursday’s action.
There is also, or so viewers learnt from the excellent coverage, a fascinating game of raise and bluff as coaches pass or accept the weights their athlete will take on, not unlike a game of bridge, only with less gin and more chance of someone seriously doing their back in. (May not apply to all bridge games.)
The only disappointment was that the early leader in the ‘Best Nickname of the Games’ stakes, Nigeria’s Nkechi ‘The Ironheart’ Opara, had to settle for bronze.
As it turned out, probably the least exciting television of the day came in the men’s triathlon, with Brownlee major crushing the rest of the field, including Brownlee minor.
The business of being brilliant, and in extreme pain, while watching your older brother be just 0.05 per cent better, could one day make a great autobiography, or recriminatory best man speech, but the coverage of this event failed, for me at least, to inject drama.
On an expansive opening day, some sports spoke for themselves.
Women’s rhythmic gymnastics (hoop) showed us Australian Jaelle Cohen, who performed with just as much bite as a Lillee or Johnson trying to decapitate a Pom batsman, although at least our cricketers do not suffer the indignity of being bounced out by an opponent in a neon yellow sequined leotard. Yet.
Her performance caused the commentator to remark, as Cohen struck her final triumphant, glowering pose, “don’t mess with me.” Indeed not.
The sports may be less familiar, but it’s all there: drama, determination, ferocity, triumph. And, in the case of Singapore’s Daphne Theresa Chia, who followed Cohen with a ball routine, another key sporting ingredient: humiliating disaster.
To use a technical rhythmic gymnastics (ball) term: Chia had an absolute shocker, dropping the ball repeatedly.
The BBC, on an impressive opening day, did not.

