http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604252/s/326392c8/sc/7/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cnews0Cpolitics0C10A3716690CMeet0Ethe0Enew0Esports0Eminister0EHelen0EGrant0Ewho0Etook0Eup0Ejudo0Eto0Ebeat0Ethe0Eracist0Ebullies0Bhtml/story01.htm
Meet the new sports minister Helen Grant who took up judo to beat the racist bullies
By Cole Moreton
6:45AM BST 13 Oct 2013
Comments
Now this is a shock. The new sports minister is trying to take me down with a judo throw.
“Don’t panic,” says Helen Grant, but it’s hard not to. She is a slender woman in a gold dress and high block heels and I, frankly, am not.
It’s flyweight versus super heavyweight in her new office at Whitehall, and I have visions of falling on top of the minister, breaking her leg and being surrounded by men with guns.
“You might be a bit heavy for me,” she says, and that’s an understatement.

Minister throws Telegraph journalist
Grant is new sports minister
Law reform minister’s firm paid £200,000 from legal aid
Equalities minister Helen Grant's husband resigns over sick pay row
Government defamation costs reforms 'could have chiling effect'
How is she going to do this? Why is she doing it?
Ordering me to stand still, she comes in closer than a Strictly Come Dancing partner and puts her arm around my waist. Nothing happens.
There, thought so. Then there’s a tug and a twist of the hips, and suddenly I’m whipped over, heading for the floor. Woah! Crikey! Steady on minister!
“Are you OK?” Yes. Just. A bit shaken, maybe. It’s not every day a junior minister sends you flying, but then Helen Grant is a bit unusual.
The daughter of a doctor from Nigeria and a nurse from Carlisle, she became the first black female Tory MP in 2010.
On Monday, she became her party’s first female sports minister. This is her first interview in the new office, which still has the name of her predecessor on the door, and she is clearly keen to present her sporting credentials.
That’s why she got up in the middle of our chat to show me her ogoshi. She learned the throw long ago, to stand up to racist bullies.
“For a while, I was the only person in the whole of the city of Carlisle with a darker skin. There was a fair bit of prejudice around, and some bullying.
"Because of that, I used to get into quite a few scraps at school. That was one of the reasons why I got involved in judo.
“My mother encouraged it. She said: 'You stand up for yourself, sweetheart’.” She was only seven years old.
“I loved the feeling of winning. The training also gave me some personal space, to think, to remember, to believe in myself and to insulate myself from some of the idiots for a while.”
It also gave her a means of self-defence. “Yes, some people did call me names. Or hit me. I would hit them back. That was that.” They didn’t hit her again. Having just been thrown, I can see why.
“My reputation did build with the judo. There was a little less trouble. People were not quite as keen to confront. I was a little girl, but tough.”
Judo and running led her into hockey, tennis, high jump and cross country. “I represented the county in all of those sports. By 13 or 14 sport was in my DNA and it has never left me.”
She has not given a proper interview about her background before, so why do it now? “I do want people to know me, and to know the story. I want kids to think, 'Well, if she’s done it, then I can do it too’.”
Her parents, Gladys and Julius, met in Newcastle when they were both in medical training. “It was the Sixties. It was not the easiest of times, probably. The relationship broke down shortly after I was born,” she says.
“He went off to the States and made a very successful career there as a consultant orthopaedic surgeon. He is now retired and lives in Florida. I am in touch with him.”
Are they friends? “Yes, we are friends. All credit to my parents. My mother made sure that contact was maintained. I started going over to America to visit him in my teens. I also have some half-brothers and sisters over there. I’m very proud of them and we are very close.”
She is more comfortable talking about Gladys. “She was a great mother. It was instilled in me, the notion that if you work hard, aim high, be resourceful, take risks sometimes, you will achieve. That was right.”
Helen Grant was born in Willesden, north London, in 1961, but was brought up in Carlisle by her mother, grandmother and great-grandmother.
“We lived in a very strong matriarchal household. We didn’t have a lot of money, but an awful lot of love.”
They were in a terraced house on the Raffles estate, which had a reputation.
“Sometimes people hear that and feel sorry for me but actually I had a very happy childhood and it did me no harm.
"There was a real community spirit on that estate. You went out to play and doors would be left open.”
She was into sport from an early age. “I knew as a little girl that I was a fast runner. I used to win loads of races. That was really important for my self confidence and my self esteem.”
She was a brown belt three flash at 12, but was not allowed to go for black belt before the age of 16. “Interest waned because I couldn’t go any further. The academic side locked in. But the confidence I had got from my sport made me feel I would be able to win academically, if I put in the same effort.”
Did she suffer from not having her father around? There is a long pause, then she says, quietly: “I don’t think so, no. It’s the ideal, obviously, as a kid growing up, if you are able to have contact with both of your parents. That’s great. But I did have contact with him. I spoke to him last night.”
Julius has come across from the States to see her at the Houses of Parliament. “He insisted.”
She invited her mother as soon as she was elected.
“You would, wouldn’t you? She is very proud. No one should ever underestimate the determination of a single parent to do the best for their child.”
After qualifying as a solicitor in the early Eighties, she joined a small firm in Wimbledon. “That was the making of me.” One case stands out.
“It was my first domestic violence case.
"A woman had been badly beaten up by her husband. Cuts and bruises. The kids had also been assaulted.
“She needed an injunction there and then, to protect herself and the children. I took the statement, took her to court, got the order and served it that afternoon. He was out of the house, she was back in. I thought, 'This is useful. I’m doing the right thing’.”
She eventually set up a family law firm called Grants, which is run by her husband, Simon. They have been married for 22 years and have two sons, aged 17 and 21, the eldest of whom is a Royal Marine.
When the boys were old enough, she looked to enter politics, and tried the Labour Party for a short while. “It just wasn’t right for me. I’m a Tory.”
Some people are surprised by that, given her background, so why? “For me, this is a party of aspiration. It doesn’t matter where you start, it’s what you do, what you aspire to. Meritocracy.
“Fundamentally, I also believe in a small state, helping small business, being tough on crime, strong family values — my family have given me everything — and personal freedom.”
She volunteered as a candidate very soon after joining the party, and was fast-tracked to Parliament with the ultra-safe seat of Maidstone and The Weald.
“I don’t think the colour of my skin has necessarily hindered or helped me,” she insists, but some in her party disagree.
They say it has accelerated her career and makes her unsackable, however awkward or nervous she might have appeared in the House at times in her first three years.
“Believe you me, you can be demoted. If you can’t do the job, you’re out. I would resign anyway. But if I can do the job, I will not be influenced by those sort of jealous remarks.”
She came under fire last year for claiming rent on a flat in London whilst owning a £1.8 million house in Kingswood, Surrey.
“I am still a paranoid lawyer. I wouldn’t want to ever do anything wrong,” she says, insisting she checked and was told it was OK to claim whilst trying to sell the house.
It is still on the market, as she tries to move to Maidstone, where one son lives with her mother. The records show she has not claimed for the flat since January.
Finally, a sports question. She has kept the equality portfolio, so what did she make of the comments by Jack Wilshere, the footballer, that only “English people” should play for England — and not those born abroad, who come here for career reasons.
“A matter for the FA. A matter for the England manager. And not a matter for a newly appointed minister for sport,” she says, as if reading from a script. For the first time, the smile has gone. She won’t be budged.
And to be quite honest, remembering the force of that ogoshi, I’m not going to push her.
