Sir Ben Ainslie counts on home race to boost GB America’s Cup hopes
By Tom Cary
7:22PM GMT 25 Nov 2014
Comments
Sir Ben Ainslie says he hopes that the America’s Cup World Series regatta in Portsmouth next summer will help his new team to qualify for the event proper in 2017, as well as attract more commercial and private backing.
At the launch of the Portsmouth leg of the ACWS at the Oxo Tower in London on Tuesday, Ainslie said that his team were well on the way to reaching their £80 million budget.
However, the four-time Olympic champion and team principal of Ben Ainslie Racing stressed that they still needed further commercial backing in particular, with discussions continuing with potential title sponsors.
Negotiations are tricky while the exact dates and venue for the final series remain unconfirmed. Bermuda is expected to be confirmed as the host venue on Dec 2 at a press conference in New York, although Ainslie denied on Tuesday that he knew any more than the rumours flying around, with San Diego the other option.
Either way, Ainslie said he was delighted that the Portsmouth leg of the ACWS, the build-up series, had got the green light. The four-day event will be held on July 23-26 next year.
Bart's Bash precedes new America's Cup bid
Cowes Week: sailing's profile is finally growing
From crew member to the America’s Cup
Ainslie driven by ruthless streak
“It’s fantastic for us to be able to race in front of a home crowd in the World Series – a global series in the build-up to the next America’s Cup in 2017,” Ainslie said. “This is a small step towards the overall result, but it’s really important for us to be able to race at home on a global front.
“It will be raced in the 45-footers [catamarans] we saw in the build-up to the last America’s Cup – they’ll be flying out of the water like we saw in San Francisco last year.”
Five challengers will compete in three stages of qualifying over the next three years for the right to take on the American defenders Oracle, who won the 2013 cup with Ainslie on board as tactician. More than 150,000 spectators attended the Plymouth leg of the ACWS in 2011, generating an estimated £9.1 million for the economy, and that was without a British team headquartered in the city.
Ben Ainslie Racing are building a new state-of-the-art base in Portsmouth’s Camber Quay which is due for completion next May just ahead of the first ACWS event in Cagliari at the start of June. After Portsmouth the ACWS will move on to Hamilton, Bermuda, in October.

