http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/571234/s/3f2e269a/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cmanchester0Eunited0C111444610CManchester0EUnited0Egoalkeeper0EDavid0Ede0EGea0Eadmits0Ehe0Econsidered0Ea0Ereturn0Eto0ESpain0Eafter0Etroubled0Estart0Bhtml/story01.htm
Manchester United goalkeeper David de Gea admits he considered a return to Spain after troubled start
By Mark Ogden, Northern Football Correspondent
10:30PM BST 06 Oct 2014
Comments
David de Gea has revealed how his traumatic introduction to English football with Manchester United led him to consider returning to Spain in order to escape criticism.
De Gea, signed to replace Edwin van der Sar as a 20-year-old from Atlético Madrid in the summer of 2011, has been credited with securing United a 2-1 victory against Everton on Sunday following a display described as “heroic” by the former Old Trafford goalkeeper Peter Schmeichel.
The performance emphasised the progress made by De Gea in the past 12 months – progress that is to be rewarded with an extension to his contract which expires in June 2016 – but the Spaniard now admits that the error-strewn start to his United career prompted him to contemplate a return to La Liga.
“Sometimes [I thought about returning to Spain]” De Gea said. “It was difficult when you get a lot of criticism like I did.
“Those early days were difficult for me and my family, but when you play for a big club like Manchester United, it is normal when you don’t play well. But I kept strong and I always tried to remain positive.
Keane: No regrets over Haaland
Keane: I shouldn't have said sorry
Keane: I headbutted Schmeichel in a drink-fuelled fight
Carrick can be United's most important player
Johnson: I can make Rooney quicker
"I loved training, it was a great pleasure, so I just did my work and worked through it.
“And I am glad it happened in some ways because the criticism makes you stronger.
“A goalkeeper is a difficult position and you make mistakes. It is normal. But you have to be strong in your mind to get through it all and get better.”
A first-half penalty save from Leighton Baines, which ended the Everton defender’s flawless spot-kick record in the Premier League, and two crucial late saves from Leon Osman and Bryan Oviedo ensured United held on to their 2-1 lead to claim all three points at Old Trafford.
Having been named as United’s Player of the Year last season, De Gea’s development since being targeted as too lightweight and indecisive by opponents has already been noted by the club’s supporters.
De Gea, 23, believes that his turbulent start at United has served to toughen him up, both mentally and physically. “I think I am playing the best football of my career. I have been here for three years and in the beginning it was difficult. Now I am ready for everything.
“I think that experience at the start at United has helped me be the player and man I am now.
“When you have bad moments you have to improve. You have to become stronger to deal with it and I believe I have become stronger. I am a much better goalkeeper now.
“The Everton game was probably one of my best performances for Manchester United. I was really happy about because games like that help your confidence grow.
“Tim Howard came up to me after the game and said I had played a fantastic game, but I didn’t win the match. It was the team who won the match.”
