Lewis Hamilton wins BBC Sports Personality of the Year
By Ben Rumsby, in Glasgow
11:55PM GMT 14 Dec 2014
Comments
Lewis Hamilton proved just how popular both he and Formula One are on Sunday night after defying the odds to be crowned the BBC’s Sports Personality of the Year.
The 29-year-old became just the fifth F1 driver, and the first since 1996, to lift the award after comfortably winning the public vote ahead of favourite Rory McIlroy and Jo Pavey at a glittering ceremony in Glasgow. Hamilton, twice runner-up in the 60-year-old celebration of the sporting year, was rewarded following his historic world-title triumph.
It was not even a close contest, with Hamilton taking 33.8 per cent of the vote to 19.9 per cent for McIlroy, who had been 25-1 on with some bookmakers during the evening.
“I want to say a huge thank you to all the people that called in,” said a “speechless” Hamilton before turning to McIlroy. “Honestly, I really wasn’t expecting it. You’ve had such an incredible year.”
He added: “I couldn’t have done it without my amazing team. I want to thank my family. My dad worked four jobs at one stage just to get me go-karting. I never thought in a million years I would be up here standing with the greats.”
Golf, not Rory McIlroy, has lost its popularity
Jo Pavey won gold for running, not giving birth. Ok BBC?
SPOTY 2014 award: as it happened
Sports Personality 2014: in pics
Hamilton, who has divided opinion during his career, also thanked his supporters, adding: “I feel your love when you come round to all these races and I feel so proud to carry the Union Jack.”
Donned in what appeared a purple velvet jacket and accompanied to the SSE Hydro by his pet bulldog, Roscoe, Hamilton joined an elite list of Sports Personality winners from F1, including Sir Stirling Moss (1961), Jackie Stewart (1973), and two-time winners Nigel Mansell (1986, 1992) and Damon Hill (1994, 1996).
However, his victory was condemned by McIlroy supporters, with the Northern Irishman’s Ryder Cup team-mate Ian Poulter tweeting: “Obsolutely [sic] ridiculous that @McIlroyRory has not won Sports Personality 2014. Huge respect to @LewisHamilton but come on. @BBCSPOTY has turned into a complete joke. It’s such a great shame. Huge congrats to @LewisHamilton, but he had 1 person to beat all year.”
McIlroy, though, was more magnanimous. “Thanks to all who voted for me! Congrats to all the candidates and especially @LewisHamilton, thoroughly deserved and a worthy winner,” he said on Twitter.
(From left to right) Jo Pavey, Lewis Hamilton and Rory McIIroy
Hamilton was recognised for becoming just the fourth British driver to win the F1 title on more than one occasion, following Jim Clark, Graham Hill and Sir Jackie Stewart. The season also saw him become the United Kingdom’s most successful F1 driver in terms of victories (33), with his 11 triumphs this year the most by a Briton in a single campaign.
That included last month’s crucial final race in Abu Dhabi, in which Hamilton sealed the title ahead of his team-mate, Nico Rosberg.
McIlroy had been the bookmakers’ favourite following his back-to-back triumphs at the Open and the US PGA, which made him the first European to land three different majors in the modern era.
“It was a phenomenal year,” he said, attributing his success to “hard work, dedication and really loving what you do. And I found that love for the game again this year”.
Watching a replay of his Open triumph, he added: “To have my mother there, when I look back on this year, that’s the moment I’ll remember the most. It makes me a little emotional looking at it.”
The two leading contenders had been hotly tipped to finish ahead of the other eight nominees, including athlete Pavey, footballer Gareth Bale, skeleton’s Lizzy Yarnold, swimmer Adam Peaty, gymnast Max Whitlock, equestrian star Charlotte Dujardin, boxer Carl Froch and Paralympic ­skiers Kelly Gallagher and Charlotte Evans.

Seven other awards were presented on Sunday night, with Cristiano Ronaldo becoming the first footballer to win the overseas prize since Brazilian namesake Ronaldo 12 years earlier.
The former Manchester United star was recognised for his record-breaking feats for Real Madrid, including scoring what was his 200th league goal for the club in what was only his 178th game and inspiring Real Madrid to their 10th European Cup triumph.
Coach of the Year unsurprisingly went to Europe’s Ryder Cup captain, Paul McGinley, who masterminded their 16½ -11½ thrashing of the United States at Gleneagles. But there was no double for the Dubliner as his players were beaten to the Team of the Year gong by England’s Women’s Rugby World Cup-winning squad.
Gymnastics sensation Claudia Fragapane took home the Young Sports Personality of the Year prize on her return to the scene of her quadruple gold medal success at the Commonwealth Games.
The BBC avoided the embarrassment of ending an evening attended by 12,000 Scots without a Scottish winner by presenting Sir Chris Hoy with a Lifetime Achievement Award.
In the year of the Scottish referendum, the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow and the first Sports Personality of the Year programme ever in Scotland, Hoy was acknowledged for a career which saw him become Britain’s most decorated Olympian.
Welling up, the six-time gold medallist recounted the recent birth of his Callum, who arrived 11 weeks premature. “Since I retired, I thought my days of getting emotional in public were over,” he said.
Sunday night’s ceremony also gained royal assent when Prince Harry presented the Helen Rollason Award for outstanding achievement in the face of adversity to the Invictus Games competitors.
The prince founded the event, which brought together more than 400 servicemen and women from 13 nations at the site of the London Olympics. “I’m like a proud dad,” he said after a standing ovation for the competitors. “You look around and everyone’s on their feet for you.”

