Wayne Rooney believes team-mate Raheem Sterling can be 'the English Marc Overmars'
By Matt Law
10:30PM BST 07 Sep 2014
Comments
Wayne Rooney claims that Raheem Sterling can be England’s Marc Overmars after watching footage of the former Holland winger with the Liverpool star before the World Cup.
Sterling’s performance was the most encouraging aspect of England’s narrow victory against Norway ahead of the Euro 2016 qualifier against Switzerland in Basle. He has played out wide and through the middle for Liverpool and England, showing he can fly past opposition players with his incredible speed and displaying an ability to pick a pass.
Rooney was the beneficiary of Sterling’s pace and trickery in the friendly against Norway, as he scored the penalty which the 19-year-old won.
Sterling is quickly developing into one of England’s key players for the Euro 2016 qualifying campaign and Rooney, the captain, has been doing his best to help the youngster.
Overmars, the former Arsenal player, made 86 appearances for Holland, scoring 17 goals, over the course of 11 years.
Under-fire Hodgson aims to silence critics
Henderson limps out of England training
Petkovic: Switzerland are England's equals
Hodgson still a local hero in adopted homeland
Welbeck can make a big impression in Basle
“Raheem’s a fantastic player,” Rooney said. “You saw that last season and with the start to this season. He’s quite an unusual player. He can play right across the front line, out wide. Although he’s a small lad, he’s really strong as well.
“I sat down with him before the World Cup and showed him videos of Marc Overmars. He reminded me of him. I think he has the potential to be as good as Overmars. He’s a young lad, but the potential he’s shown is incredible. He’ll be a massive player for us for the next 10 to 15 years and, unfortunately, for Liverpool.”
Although Rooney’s insight into how he has been working closely with Sterling was only brief, it offered up evidence of one of the reasons Hodgson selected him to take over as captain from Steven Gerrard.
There has been much debate during the past week over whether or not Rooney deserves to keep his place in Hodgson’s team. Daniel Sturridge has emerged as England’s main striker, but a thigh injury has ruled him out of the Switzerland game.
Rooney’s penalty against Norway was his 41st England goal, moving him ahead of Michael Owen into fourth place in the all-time scoring charts, and he is now nine off beating Sir Bobby Charlton’s record of 49.
This Euro 2016 qualifying campaign gives Rooney the chance to create goalscoring history with home and away games against San Marino, Estonia, Slovenia and Lithuania to come. Switzerland will comfortably be England’s biggest test.
“I spoke to Michael Owen, he was at St George’s Park two days after the Norway game,” Rooney said. “He wasn’t too pleased, to be honest!
“It’s great for me to go above Michael. I watched him as a boy growing up, so to go above him in the goalscoring charts is great. I’d be a fool if I didn’t look at Sir Bobby Charlton’s record and I feel capable of passing him. It’s in my sights. I want to do it. Hopefully, one day I can.”
Rooney has happy memories of playing Switzerland, having opened the scoring for England after 10 minutes in Basle four years ago in Euro 2012 qualifying. “Four years ago is a long time, it was a completely different team and we have to look to the future,” he said. “There is no point looking back. It was a good result and good performance four years ago, but that game’s irrelevant.
“This game is probably the most difficult of the group. We want to come out with a good result. We’ve had time to prepare and I think we’ve done that well. We’re excited and looking forward to it. It’s a big test. Not just the young players, but the whole team if we get a positive result, it will give us confidence to do well in this group.”
Rooney is not just chasing Charlton’s England record. He is third in the list of Manchester United all-time goalscorers and believes he can eventually pass Charlton’s total of 249. The 28-year-old has so far netted 217 goals in 445 games for the Old Trafford club. “I speak with Sir Bobby Charlton a lot at Manchester United, but the record is not something we speak about. Obviously, it would be a great achievement by myself and I’d be delighted to do that.
“Both records have stood for a long time and a lot of players have attempted to break them. Now they’re in touching distance, the two of them. It’s something I’d love to do. I feel I’m capable of doing it. Hopefully, one day I’ll hold the two records. I’m confident I can.”
- 29 things that have changed since the World Cup - Paul Hayward: Rooney can learn from Bobby Moore's dark side - Henry Winter: Roy Hodgson desperate to silence his critics - Scotland furious as Muller brace seals win for Germany - Michel Platini threatens retired Franck Ribery with suspension

