Switzerland v England: Roy Hodgson swears new plan will work as Euro 2016 campaign begins
By Jason Burt
10:30PM BST 06 Sep 2014
Comments
“We are not preparing for a World Cup final,” Roy Hodgson said, by way of attempting to defuse how he feels the opening tie to qualify for the 2016 European Championship, away against Switzerland on Monday, has been “built up” into something far more significant.
It was an unfortunate turn of phrase given England's crushingly disappointing early exit from the World Cup finals in Brazil in June but it was not the first time last week that Hodgson might have regretted his choice of words.
“Goodness me,” the England manager reflected when asked whether the industrial language he had used in the aftermath of the flat 1-0 friendly victory against Norway at Wembley was a sign of the pressure getting to him (he described criticism of England’s performance as “f------ b-------”).
“What sort of world are we living in?” Hodgson said, of the way his outburst had been presented. “You are scraping the bottom of a barrel to say something negative there. Listen, I’m a football coach. I worked most of my life, up to the age of 25, in England. I played in the non-League with dockers for whom every other word was a swear word. They didn’t even know they were swearing because they didn’t know any other words.
“So all of a sudden, look if you get it written down – we are very, very annoyed and morally offended by the England manager using a swear word. And we insist that in the future he never swears – then, OK, I will never swear in your company again. I just thought I was with mature enough people to understand that a swear word, which I thought was probably used at the right time, should not provoke a fit of moral indignation.”
Hodgson unleashes attack on critics
Why Rodgers is the man to rescue England
Rooney saves England blushes at Wembley
Rooney: walking out as captain will be 'special moment'
Hodgson: Where's the next Rooney?
Hodgson feels Van Gaal's wrath over Shaw
Hodgson’s is a fair point, to an extent. He does swear – he even does so in front of his wife, Sheila, “because I swear all the time” – and the headlines were strong. But understandably so.
Everyone is searching for answers to what Hodgson is trying to achieve with England and, more specifically, how he is trying to achieve it. He claimed that he was “not arguing with anyone, I was making points” and that he was not angry, but his tone was intemperate and dismissive, and it does not need to be.
Being questioned, sometimes forensically, comes with the territory. Especially right now. Hodgson gave a lengthy debrief to the Football Association after Brazil but he has to expect that the inquest into that sort of performance will persist until there are signs of progress.
But Hodgson is also right, England do need to move on. He may protest that his language has nothing to do with pressure but he is dismissive of being questioned and that is far more illuminating. It smacks of someone who does not ‘get’ the fact that in the job he has, there is a duty to explain; particularly at a time when he is tasked with rebuilding a team.
The FA wants him to. Why else would the organisation talk of a two-year job to regain public confidence following Brazil and with, frankly, an uninspiring qualification group to get to the next Euros through which England cannot fail to progress? Even if they lose away and at home against the Swiss – highly unlikely – still all they have to do is finish ahead of Estonia, Slovenia, Lithuania and San Marino, and they will make it to France.
Therefore this is an opportunity; an opportunity to build a new, young vibrant team. It is almost a free throw to spend the next two years moulding a squad that it is ready to compete at the next championship and the one beyond. Hodgson spoke of “scars” and “baggage” from Brazil but the fact is that this sort of renewal should immediately remove those. Many of the players he is turning to were not involved or were on the peripheries.
But it is not just about personnel, it is about approach and, again, the FA have spoken about the need to discover a “DNA” for England. That may not be only Hodgson’s responsibility but he knows he must create an identity for his team.
“If you watched the game the other night [against Norway] and you studied our attacking play and how we are looking to play and how we are defending, I think you will find, quite easily, very clear signs of identity we are trying to have,” Hodgson argued. “The defending, the pressurising was much better than it had been. We were very strong on the ball, we pressed up so I see it. But whether you see it that way or not it’s up to you. I can’t really answer those questions because they are far too global. I watched the performance. And there will be lots of occasions when what I think was a good performance will be judged as a bad one because the result wasn’t what people wanted.”
Maybe Hodgson is right, then, and too much is being asked of him. He is not the saviour of English football he is just the manager of the senior national team and someone who is being judged on his next result.
Nevertheless his answer was slightly dispiriting. Although facing Switzerland – vulnerable at the back, powerful in midfield and vibrant in attack with Xherdan Shaqiri – in Basle will probably be England’s toughest tie it might actually, also, be a restorative match for Hodgson. The 67-year-old had a spectacularly successful three years in charge of the Swiss national team, taking them to the 1994 World Cup finals (for which England failed to qualify), defeating and drawing with Italy along the way, elevating them to third in the Fifa rankings. He is revered.

“We are building this game up now and I don’t have any reason to knock it down but on the other hand, it’s the first qualifying game,” Hodgson reiterates. “We want to get off to a good start, we want to play well, we want to win but if we win it by 3-0 that still doesn’t mean to say we’re going to win the Euros in 2016. I wouldn’t for one minute dream of going into this game trying to suggest to the players: ‘Look, we need to win this game it’s very, very important after the World Cup.’
“There’s an air of negativity, as you said, we can’t get away from that, this is an opportunity to play well and to help ourselves going forward and help the environment. But if it doesn’t happen it still won’t necessarily impact on 2016 because I can assure you that they have to come here as well and there’s nine more matches to play and we will, with this group of players, who are a very young group of players, we will be in Euro 2016. Two years down the road, with the work we’re doing together, I would like to think we’ll be a better team.”
England need to be and Hodgson still needs to prove he is the man who can do it.
- Jon Liew: 29 things that have changed since the World Cup

