Cycling 2014 review: Tour de France helps cycling hit mainstream in a year of peaks and troughs
By Tom Cary
10:18PM GMT 29 Dec 2014
Comments
With Team Sky failing to win so much as a stage at any of the three grands tours, 2014 was not a vintage season for a British sporting public spoilt in recent years by the exploits of our Olympians, and by Sir Bradley Wiggins and Chris Froome in the Tour de France. But then, perhaps we have been overly spoilt. Any year that features close to five million fans lining British roads to cheer on a Tour de France peloton must be doing something right.
The ‘Grand Depart’ in July – three heady days set to a backdrop of the Yorkshire Dales and real ale, during which the country fell hard for cycling – was the highlight. Although the Tour has visited these shores before, in 1974, 1994 and 2007, this was the first edition to contain more than two stages in England and felt like the moment the sport truly hit the mainstream for the first time.
Mark Cavendish’s crash on the very first stage, which finished in his mother’s home town of Harrogate, was a great shame both for him and for cycling fans, who were denied the chance to see him go mano a mano with his big sprint rival Marcel Kittel over the next three weeks. But nothing could take the gloss off. Right up until the moment the action crossed the Channel anyway. Froome’s exit just prior to the cobbles of stage five robbed the Tour of one its main contenders, and reignited feverish debate over Sky’s decision to leave Wiggins at home.
When Alberto Contador followed suit a few days later, crashing out at 77kmph, the tension all but drained out of proceedings. Vincenzo Nibali, the Astana rider, would go on to win by a huge margin, his victory later soured by a spate of positive doping tests in his team.
Even if only one of Astana’s infamous five actually rode with Nibali on the Tour and, even if that rider’s sample was taken one week after the finish in Paris, it reflected abysmally on the team. Astana would eventually be granted a licence to race next season but, according to UCI president Brian Cookson, they are in the “last‑chance saloon”.
F1 2014 review: Hamilton emerges as shining light
World Cup 2014 review: Brazil carnival lives long in the memory
Golf 2014 review: Equality evolution must continue
Tennis 2014 review: Rejuvenated Federer puts revolution at bay
Back on the road, Froome and Contador bounced back from their respective broken bones to produce a magnificent Vuelta a España, the race we had all hoped we would get at the Tour, with the Spaniard eventually prevailing.
Elsewhere, it was a year of peaks and troughs. Wiggins, who at the age of 34 continues to set the bar extraordinarily high, was responsible for what was probably the standout performance of the season from a British perspective. His victory, at the sixth time of asking, in the world time trial championship in September cemented his status as one of the finest all-round riders this country – and the world – has seen.
By beating the in-form German Tony Martin over a rolling 47.1km course in north-west Spain, Wiggins became the first rider of any nationality to win Olympic gold medals (four of them) on both the track and road, world titles (seven) on both the track and the road, as well as the Tour de France.
Other highlights? Joanna Rowsell’s individual pursuit gold at the UCI Track World Championships in Colombia in February was a stirring moment that saw her step out from behind the shadow of her more celebrated team-mate Laura Trott. Rowsell’s ride was marred only by the knowledge that the discipline does not feature on the Olympic programme.
GB’s women remained unbeaten in the team pursuit in 2014, just as they did in 2011, 2012 and 2013. Our quartet are now the reigning Olympic, world and European champions. It is difficult to think of a British team in any sport that has been so utterly dominant on the world stage.
The men’s endurance squad had a less successful time in Cali, failing to qualify for the medal races and receiving a stinging rebuke from Shane Sutton, who in April stepped up to the top job when Sir Dave Brailsford left British Cycling to focus his full attention on Team Sky. Sutton’s squad ended the season in better spirits after a reasonably successful UCI Track World Cup event back at the Olympic velodrome in London, but the loss of riders such as Chris Hoy and Victoria Pendleton is being felt.
There was unexpected success at the national road race championships in Monmouthshire for Pete Kennaugh, who outsprinted his Sky team-mate Ben Swift, and for Trott, who does not even like road cycling. Lizzie Armitstead bounced back well from the pain of losing that title, enjoying arguably the most consistent form of her career to claim the UCI Women’s Road World Cup and Commonwealth road race gold (Geraint Thomas won the men’s race beneath a biblical downpour, a performance that greatly contributed to his Welsh SPOTY win).
Armitstead also got herself into the perfect position to contest the world road race, only to hesitate at the crucial moment. The Otley-born rider looks increasingly as if she believes she can win these big events, though, and the road-race course at Rio 2016, announced at the end of the year, looks well suited to her.
One man who will not be there is David Millar. The men’s road race in Ponferrada witnessed a final outing in GB colours for the enigmatic, eloquent Scot, whose rollercoaster career, which saw him wear the leader’s jersey at all three grands tours as well as serve a two-year suspension for doping, finally came to an end.
2014 in numbers:
0 - In early March, GB’s men returned empty-handed from the UCI Track World Championships in Cali, Colombia, their worst performance since the advent of Lottery funding 16 years ago.
9 - Sir Bradley Wiggins’ finishing position at Paris-Roubaix in April, where he made the final selection, proving his doubters wrong and showing that he can be a force at the cobbled classic. Winning the race is one of Wiggins’ major targets for 2015.
11 - The number of years Sir Dave Brailsford was in charge at British Cycling during which time he transformed the squad into arguably the most successful British team in any sport at world and Olympic level. He stepped down in April to concentrate on leading Team Sky.
4.8 - The number of spectators, in millions, who lined the route for the three English stages of the Tour de France in early July in what was an unprecedented display of popularity for cycling in the UK.
1 - Mark Cavendish suffered agony when he crashed out of the Tour de France on the very first stage into his mother’s home town of Harrogate. His exit deprived the race of one of its most intriguing battles with Cavendish expected to challenge Marcel Kittel for the title of sprint king.
3 - The number of falls suffered by Chris Froome over the course of two days before he, like Cavendish, retired from the Tour de France just as it reached the cobbles of Paris-Roubaix on a brutal, wet fifth stage.
7 - Vincenzo Nibali’s eventual winning margin in the 101st Tour de France was 7min37secs, from France’s unheralded Jean-Christophe Peraud. It was the largest winning margin since Jan Ullrich triumphed by over nine minutes in 1997.
26 - Wiggins’ winning margin in seconds over Tony 'Der Panzerwagen’ Martin in the world time trial in Ponferrada in September, ensuring he became the first rider to win Olympic gold medals (four) on both the track and road, world titles (seven) on both the track and the road, as well as the Tour de France.
21 - The finishing position of Scot David Millar in his last ever race, the 700-yard Bec Hill Climb in Surrey on Oct 12, bringing the curtain down on a colourful, controversial 18-year career.
8 - The number of ribs broken by Dani King in a freak training accident while out riding in south Wales. The 2012 Olympic gold medallist also punctured a lung when an unnamed “ex-rugby player” ploughed into her, leaving her unable to breathe and convinced she was going to die en route to hospital.
4 - The number of gold medals won by the Great Britain team at the UCI Track World Cup, the first time back at the Olympic velodrome since London 2012. Coincidentally, also the number of years GB’s women’s team pursuiters have now gone unbeaten.
5 - The amount of positive doping tests at Astana during 2014, two from their senior team and three from Astana Continental. Astana were nevertheless handed a WorldTour for 2015, albeit they are still on probation.

