UFC: Don't bet against 'Doberman' Dollaway in Lyoto Machida step up; 8 things we learnt from UFC Phoenix
By Gareth A Davies, MMA Correspondent
7:00PM GMT 17 Dec 2014
Comments
As a rule of thumb, no good comes from betting against C.B. Dollaway in Brazil. Whereas most freeze on foreign soil, he thrives. Two of his last three victories have taken place there and both times he defeated Brazilians in front of their countrymen. Ouch.
Rather than being a hate figure, though, Dollaway earned the respect of Brazilians in his wins against Daniel Sarafian and Cezar Ferreira. The former fight was a three-round war, and landed him and Sarafian 'Fight of the Night' bonuses, while his first-round knockout of Ferreira was achieved within 40 seconds and stunned the Natal crowd in to silence.
Dollaway had never looked so good or explosive. The Brazilian's bogeyman had done it again.
Dollaway, of course, has always been one of the better middleweight contenders in the UFC, ever since appearing on season seven of The Ultimate Fighter. He can wrestle, he's a blue belt in Brazilian ju-jitsu and his hands aren't bad, either.
But his form has, at times, been somewhat patchy and defeats to Mark Munoz and Jared Hamman in 2011, both by stoppage, seemed to signal an end to his ambitions of ever one day competing for the UFC world title.
Since then, however, he has won four of five fights and produced a number of upsets and bonus-winning performances.
He's a new man, revitalised, revived, eager to learn from past mistakes. What's more, he's still only 31. That gives him plenty of time to have another run or two at the title.
Watch Machida KO Bader

This weekend he competes in Brazil for a third time in the space of two years. He'll be fighting on Saturday night in Barueri against another Brazilian, only this time the Brazilian in question happens to be former UFC light-heavyweight champion Lyoto Machida, otherwise known as one of the best mixed martial artists of all-time. Dollaway doesn't mind. He figures if he's beaten Sarafian and Ferreira in enemy territory, he can do the same to 'The Dragon'. Those with any knowledge of Machida, however, know it might not be so easy this time.
Now down at middleweight, 36-year-old Lyoto fought for the UFC world title earlier this year, losing a close and competitive five-round decision to Chris Weidman; though unanimous, he was in the fight every step of the way and finished strongly, hurting the American on more than one occasion. Not only that, Machida's middleweight form is well represented by quality wins over perennial contenders Gegard Mousasi and Mark Munoz, the latter achieved by a head-kick in the very first round.
Watch Dollaway KO Ferreira

Rest assured, this is, on paper, a bigger test for Dollaway than it is for Machida, a man who has fought a who's who of light-heavyweights and middleweights over the years. It's a step-up for Dollaway and it's the kind of fight that could, should he get it all right on the night, catapult him towards a title shot in 2015.
Don't sleep on 'The Doberman', especially not in Brazil. Too many have done that in the past and paid the price.
8 things we learnt from UFC Phoenix as Stipe Miocic and Junior Dos Santos go to war
1. There is nothing wrong with the whiskers of Junior Dos Santos or Stipe Miocic.
2. Stipe, the No 4 heavyweight, may have lost but his stock rose as he stretched the former UFC heavyweight champion.
3. Stefan Struve's confidence looks shot to pieces.
4. Matt Mitrione just needs to get himself in shape to be a decent contender.
5. Nate Diaz showed what happens when you take a year out from the UFC, and lose momentum.
6. Rafael Dos Anjos is unlikely to defeat Anthony Pettis to earn the UFC lightweight title, but he definitely deserves a shot at the gold in 2015.
7. Strawweight Joanna Jędrzejczyk defeated Cláudia Gadelha over three rounds and has earned herself a shot at Carl Esparza in 2015.
8. It has been a rough couple of months for European fighters – defeats for Michael Bisping, Ross Pearson, Luke Barnatt, Nick Hein, Brad Pickett. So it was good to see the former footballer Ian Entwistle defeat Anthony Birchak by heel hook submission and win a $50k performance of the night bonus.
UFC Phoenix full results:
Main Card Heavyweight Junior dos Santos def. Stipe Miocic Decision (unanimous) (48-47, 49-46, 49-46) Catchweight (160.6lbs) Rafael dos Anjos def. Nate Diaz Decision (unanimous) (30-26, 30-26, 30-27) Heavyweight Alistair Overeem def. Stefan Struve TKO (punches) Rd 1, 4:13 Heavyweight Matt Mitrione def. Gabriel Gonzaga TKO (punches) Rd 1, 1:59
Preliminary Card Women's Strawweight Joanna Jędrzejczyk def. Cláudia Gadelha Decision (split) (29-28, 28-29, 29-28) Flyweight John Moraga def. Willie Gates Submission (rear-naked choke) Rd 3, 4:06 Welterweight Ben Saunders def. Joe Riggs Submission (neck injury) Rd 1, 0:57 Lightweight Drew Dober def. Jamie Varner Submission (rear-naked choke) Rd 1, 1:52 Lightweight Bryan Barberena def. Joe Ellenberger TKO (elbows & punches) Rd 3, 3:24
Preliminary Card (UFC Fight Pass) Lightweight David Michaud def. Garett Whiteley Decision (unanimous) (29-28, 29-28, 30-27) Bantamweight Henry Cejudo def. Dustin Kimura Decision (unanimous) (30-27, 30-27, 30-27) Bantamweight Ian Entwistle def. Anthony Birchak Submission (heel hook) Rd 1, 1:04

