http://www.zdnet.com/article/two-chromebooks-for-199/#ftag=RSSbaffb68
Take your pick: Two solid $199 Chromebooks from Acer | ZDNet
Chromebooks are laptops running Chrome OS that are good fits for many situations. The light OS doesn't require heavy hardware, and that makes them cheaper than many laptops. Those on a tight budget can find a couple of good Chromebooks from Acer for just $199.Acer jumped into making Chromebooks early on, and is selling a lot of them. This is due to building solid units at a reasonable price. The Acer C720 and Chromebook 11 are similar laptops, each with a display of 11.6 inches (1366 x 768) and an Intel Celeron processor. The primary difference is in weight, with the Chromebook 11 lighter than the C720 (2.43 vs. 2.76 pounds).Both Chromebooks have 2GB of system memory and 16GB of internal storage. Each features two USB ports, 1 USB 2.0 and another USB 3.0. There is a full HDMI port for connecting to TVs or external monitors. With a SD memory card slot, internal storage can be augmented for those who need more. That may not be necessary as Google gives 100GB of cloud storage with the purchase of any Chromebook. Chrome OS integrates Google Cloud storage in Chrome OS, so many should find this sufficient.See related: ZDNet review of the Acer Chromebook C720I own the Acer Chromebook C720 and it has served me well for over a year. The Haswell Celeron processor is sufficient for running Chrome OS, and the hardware package should be more than enough for many users.How to decide between a $199 Windows notebook and a ChromebookThe $199 price of the Acer Chromebook 11 and C720 is not a promotional price, it is the regular price. Retailers regularly run promotions for these Chromebooks and they can be found as low as $149 at times.Buy the Acer Chromebook 11Buy the Acer Chromebook C720Chromebooks are available with display sizes up to 15 inches and with more powerful hardware for those willing to pay more. These units range in price from $250 to $400 so there is a wide range of Chromebook solutions. Those looking at Chromebooks and willing to pay more than $199 may find this gallery of the top Chromebook at each available display size useful.Four top Chromebooks by screen size: | Image 1 of 5 In the beginning there were only a couple of Chromebooks to choose from, but that didn't last long. Now there are quite a few models vying for your money. Many of them sport very similar hardware.With a few exceptions, most Chromebooks have an Intel processor, usually the Celeron. The outliers have an ARM processor, or an Intel Core i3, and we're starting to see some appear with the Nvidia Tegra K1. They are all available with 2 or 4GB of memory, and 16 or 32GB of onboard storage.Due to the similarity in the hardware components of most Chromebooks, the deciding factor for many when considering a purchase is a particular screen size. There are now Chromebooks with the same display sizes found in the conventional laptop world. Chromebooks are available in these screen sizes: 11.6, 13.3, 14, 15.6 inches.I've looked long and hard at the current options, and present my take on the best Chromebook with each sized screen. Wherever possible, an honorable mention is listed.This list makes it clear that Acer dominates the Chromebook space.The Acer C720 is a long running (for Chromebooks) model that has seen several hardware iterations. The latest has an Intel Core i3 processor, bringing traditional laptop performance to the Chromebook.I've owned the Celeron model for a good while, and it is still a very good Chromebook.Amazon product pageSee the full review on ZDNet (Celeron model)Honorable mention: Lenovo N20P ChromebookThis is the first Chromebook with the Tegra K1 processor, and it impressed me when I tested it upon release. It is very fast, and the build quality is excellent.The graphics hardware in the Acer Chromebook 13 makes it a great laptop for playing video. It's also fast at rendering web pages, which is at the very heart of Chromebook operation.If I was buying a Chromebook today, this is the one I would get.Amazon product pageDon't miss the review on ZDNetHonorable mention: Toshiba Chromebook 2 (see the review on CNET)HP has a number of Chromebook models, and this 14-inch is very capable. It was recently refreshed with the Nvidia Tegra K1 processor.It weighs almost a pound less than the largest Chromebook in this collection, so those wanting a reasonably large screen that isn't too heavy may find this a better fit.Product page on AmazonThis is the first Chromebook to hit the market with a 15.6-inch display. The hardware components are typical for a Chromebook, and the large display may be what some buyers need.The large laptop weighs almost five pounds, which is much heavier than all of the smaller Chromebooks in this collection.Product announcement(note this is not yet available at time of publication)