Flipping DRAM bits - maliciously
As documented in DRAM error rates: Nightmare on DIMM street, DRAM error rates are hundreds to thousands of times higher than thought -- a mean of 3,751 correctable errors per DIMM per year. Which assumes your DIMM has error correcting code (ECC) to correct those errors. If not:
In Flipping Bits in Memory Without Accessing Them: An Experimental Study of DRAM Disturbance Errors, researchers Yoongu Kim, Ross Daly, Jeremie Kim, Chris Fallin, Ji Hye Lee, Donghyuk Lee, Konrad Lai Onur Mutlu - all of CMU - and Chris Wilkerson of Intel Labs, found that commodity DRAM chips are vulnerable to disturbance errors. Moore's Law has reduced cell sizes and made them more susceptible to adjacent current flows.
The root cause of the errors: rapid voltage fluctuations on the wordline of a row of memory cells. The wordline voltage is raised in order to read bits in the row of cells.
A program that issues as few as 139,000 reads to a specific wordline can induce an error. As many as 1 in every 1700 cells is susceptible to such errors.
That may not seem like a lot, but in an 8Gbit chip that means more than 4 million bits are susceptible to malicious bit flipping. Since most systems don't use ECC the system has no way of knowing it is being attacked.
The authors suggest an inexpensive solution they call probabalistic adjacent row activation (PARA):
PARA won't eliminate adjacent bit flips - it is probabalistic, not deterministic - but it can be tuned make them rare. It may even help with the much higher than specified error rates seen in the field.
Intel has been working on this problem for years, but today DRAM from all three major vendors is prone to this attack. The researchers found that over 80% of tested DIMM modules had disturbable cells.
Yet again we see the storage technologies that underpin our digital civilization are much less robust than we expect or need. Industry needs to get serious about digital storage quality.
The good news: the solution proposed in the paper seems to combine low cost with good effectiveness. Let's hope vendors are listening!
Comments welcome, as always. Any bets on how long before we see DRAM disturbance attack?

