http://www.huffingtonpost.com/peter-getty/climate-protection-a-port_b_5903544.html
Climate Protection: A Portfolio of Good Sense and Cents for Our Planet
It's becoming increasingly more difficult to stomach resistance to changing our energy production purely on the argument that a low carbon climate is the Grim Reaper of our economy. Ignoring sound studies to the contrary is indefensible -- whether it be from faulty right wing opposition or climate deniers' irrational fears. Maybe you're somewhere in between either of these ridiculous chatterings and sitting on the fence -- well, it makes no sense. Don't believe those who would have you think there's no access to money or available technology to implement low-carbon and climate resilient growth, because there is plenty of both.
If you need examples of testimonials from other countries who have seen positive outcomes from taking such calculated risks, look to Sweden for one. The Swedes closures of power plants fired by coal and other means of converting "trash to fuel" have shown life saving results in the return of fish and other wild habitats to their aquatic ecosystems. Continuing to choke the life our of our planet in favor of saving the lesser of two evils, our economy, is no longer a thinking man or woman's debate. Providing less gas guzzling cars didn't wipe out the automobile industry or have us driving over cliffs in unsafe vehicles is a once ill-conceived set of conceptions worthy of reflection. It's not surprising how some find themselves pessimistic over climate change and growth when anti-environmentalists and scores of other self-interest groups pollute our airwaves with doomsday propaganda. There is no substitution for achieving a healthier view by becoming more informed. The truth is: environmental protection and financial success can co-exist. There are constant and consistent findings by CSR companies that their efforts have not jeopardized their businesses, but in many cases have added to their profits. When their voices become more frequent and louder than say, the Koch brothers, then we may see some real progress if affecting more sorely needed change. The bottom line is, climate change economics is viable and sustainable. The wide-ranging benefits to our not so distant future lives and our generational concerns for the environment are priceless.
