http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2015/01/23/michael-dell-davos_n_6506034.html
Michael Dell: 'The Most Dangerous Thing Is Not Taking A Risk'
Michael Dell, founder and CEO of Dell, Inc., told HuffPost Live at Davos on Friday he's disappointed in entrepreneurs and leaders who don't encourage a little risk taking.
"When you hear people talk about risks at Davos, many times they're talking about risk as a bad thing," Dell said. "The way I think about risk is, I want to take some risks. The most dangerous thing is not taking a risk."
Dell said he thinks it should be more simple to get businesses started and change the culture so "there's more acceptance of risk."
"If you want to create jobs and entrepreneurship, make it easy for people to start companies," Dell said.
Dell did acknowledge more risks could lead to more failure, but he argued that could be a positive thing.
"You don't learn anything when you're succeeding, right? You learn when you're failing," Dell said.
Below, live updates from the 2015 Davos Annual Meeting:
"Evolution has wired us; we have social drives," McAfee said.
"Could there be a piece of technology that figures out an intelligent next question to ask somebody? Yeah," McAfee said.
"For 200 years of industrial technology, we've been making workers obsolete," McAfee said.
McAfee said nobody knows if we're reaching the point where technological developments could lead to unemployment.

Andrew McAfee of the MIT Sloan School of Management on HuffPost Live
"We strive to have the majority of our graduates female," EFE's Ron Bruder said.
"I don't think there's an official barrier but there's a social and structural barrier in a lot of these countries toward women," Bruder added.
Bruder said his company creates local foundations, and those foundations tackle those issues on EFE's behalf.
EFE's president and CEO Jamie McAuliffe, along with founder and chair Ron Bruder, sat down with HuffPost Live at Davos on Saturday.
Bruder said it's vital to the global economy that youths have jobs.
McAuliffe said EFE starts with businesses.
"Where are the jobs?" he said.
Catchafire Founder & CEO Rachael Chong joins HuffPost Live to share her thoughts on how to get more women to Davos.
Greg McKeown, author of Essentialism: The Disciplined Pursuit of Less, said his book grew out of working with people who are really successful.
"Success can become a catalyst for failure," he said.
McKeown said leaders at Davos have experience with plateauing after achieving professional success. To avoid that, McKeown said, people must find a way to expand their contribution without doing more.
"The whole idea is about doing less, but better," he said.
"In some sense, we're the next generation of banks," Smith said, noting you wouldn't put your data in a place you don't trust just like you wouldn't deposit your money at a bank you don't feel is stable.
Smith said the most difficult part about investigating a hacking crime is identifying and finding a hacker.
"Our prisons are not full of hackers," Smith said, noting hackers are often in countries outside the U.S.

Brad Smith at Davos
"2015 needs to be a year for new solutions, and that's what we're proposing. We do need new laws in the United States and in Europe," Smith said. "We're trying to manage 21st century technology issues with laws that were written in the '80s and '90s."
Microsoft's Brad Smith said the Sony hack was an example of how the Internet could be used as a way to both fight against and fight for free expression.
"We saw the Internet being used both as a weapon to attack free expression... and as a tool to defend free expression," Smith said.
Brad said lawmakers in the U.S. and Europe need to discuss how to increase online privacy while still providing law enforcement with information they need.
As an engineer, Busque said she's always worked primarily around men.
"For me, it's never something I've focused on but it definitely is there and is an issue," Busque said.
"I've some very strong female role models, so I think that's an important thing," she added, saying she regularly thinks about how she can encourage women at her own company to take on leadership roles and grow as employees.

Leah Busque on HuffPost Live
Leah Busque, founder and CEO of TaskRabbit, said as a business leader it's important to consider the quality of the lives you're curating for workers.
"I believe there's been a slippery slope of new companies that have formed in the name of on demand services ... that maybe aren't having as much of a focus as they should on the worker," Busque said.
Chong spoke about what it's like to be one of the few women at Davos.
"It's not always easy to stand up and say, 'hey, that was a sexist remark,'" she said.
"I think we have to use our voice," she added. "Particularly with businesswomen, there are so few, and as role models they're so important."
Chong explained how she left the world of investment banking -- a job she said she actually enjoyed -- to become an entrepreneur.
"While I was banking I still wanted to be able to give back and at the time the only opportunity was, once a year we'd get put on a bus and go build a house," Chong said. "All volunteer work is good, but when you think about maximizing impact, bankers building houses is not necessarily the best use of their time."
"I became really obsessed with then finding a way to volunteer my skills," Chong added.
Chong said the people who volunteer with Catchafire gain something by giving up their time and services.
"It gives people a sense of purpose," Chong said.

Rachael Chong at HuffPost Live
Rachael Chong, founder and CEO of Catchafire, said it can be hard to get professionals to donate their time, but busy people somehow still make it work.
"The busiest people are the ones who usually fit in the most stuff and are the most productive," she said.
Thanks to @ariannahuff we'll #thrive on the #wef15 #purposejourney in #Davos via #bulletproofcoffee and @thirdmetric pic.twitter.com/qzagkLgR86
— Valerie Keller (@Valerie_Keller_) January 24, 2015
Microsoft International President Jean-Philippe Courtois joins HuffPost Live to talk about technology at Davos, NSA reform and some exciting products that are on the horizon.
"I just think if leaders don't set a tone about why we do what we do and why we do it in a way that's enriching for all of us, then people just assume all leadership cares about is the bottom line," Lesser said.
Lesser said he tries to lead by example but he's "probably on email too much."
"In our world, having great talent want to come and want to stay is the single biggest driver of success," Lesser said.
Lesser said empowering millennial workers and making them aware of the impact they'll have on the world through their work has increased the success of BCG.
"I really think the more we've invested to make it a unique work environment... it's totally a positive," Lesser said.
Boston Consultant Group president and CEO Rich Lesser and Wendy Woods, global leader of Social Impact for BCG, joined HuffPost Live at Davos on Saturday to share how their company helped the UN respond to the Ebola crisis.
"It's something that we felt most privileged to be a part of," Lesser said.
Woods said it's normal for government entities to reach out to consulting groups, but usually the process takes a lot more time.
"The coordination has been better than I've ever seen it on a global scale," Woods said.
Courtois said new devices are "enabling people to do more stuff, to do great stuff."
Courtois also spoke about new technology being developed by Microsoft that will allow users to interact with 3D holograms.
Courtois shared how Microsoft played a role after the recent terror attacks in Paris, partnering with French law enforcement and the FBI to get police information they needed within 45 minutes of the attack's start.

Jean-Philippe Courtois on HuffPost Live
Jean-Philippe Courtois, president of Microsoft International, spoke about the steps his company is taking to maintain the public's trust as data moves further into the Cloud.
Courtois said Microsoft has been focusing on several aspects: improving how they anchor the data; certification and compliance of infrastructure; and transparency.
"This is a big deal to actually report back to society what we do with data and how we deal with government requests," Courtois said about being a transparent company.
Valerie Keller and Cheryl Grise of the EY Beacon Institute talk with HuffPost Live about how to transform your business through a better sense of purpose.
