http://www.zdnet.com/article/indian-entrepreneur-wants-solar-energy-to-power-your-devices/#ftag=RSSbaffb68
Indian entrepreneur wants solar energy to power your devices
Evaki founder Jignesh Nishar believes in a responsible lifestyle, and has a keen interest in solar technology (Evaki means "sun" in mythology). The company was founded in August 2012 to develop eco-friendly devices, and it launched its first product — Solar Power Pad SPP-01 — recently. The device uses solar energy to charge mobile phones, tablets, digital cameras, and other consumer gadgets.
While the Evaki Solar Pad gives the advantage of portable chargers that are very popular these days, it eliminates the need for power supply to charge the device. The company believes that this device will be consumers' first step towards solar technology . The only drawback of the device is its size, roughly the size of an iPad — although there were fair considerations that led to the design choice. One, the device should be charged in few hours, so a wider solar panel was required. Also, since the device positions itself as the primary source, the internal battery was made to be capable enough so that the device can be used more than once in a day.
Priced at INR4,995 ($81), the 10.8-inch solar panel has an internal battery of 3000mAh. The review device that I tried took three to four hours to charge completely under direct sunlight. Ideally, direct sunlight is recommended. If the light is blocked due to shadows from walls or gets reflected by glass, the time taken to charge the Power Pad would be longer.
Jignesh explained why the Power Pad can't be charged by a bulb or tube light. A typical incandescent light bulb has a luminous efficiency of only about 2 percent, so these light sources don't give required lumens to generate electricity. The Power Pad has two USB output ports — 1A and 2A. 1A is for normal charging time, and 2A is for quick charging time. Any device supporting USB port charging can be charged using the Power Pad.
Apple experimenting with an iWatch, secures solar touchscreen patent
The build quality of the device is pretty good, and the polycarbonate casing reduces weight while protecting the device from heat, fire, moisture, and breakage. The unit also comes with reusable rubber suction caps that can be used to keep the Evaki Solar Power Pad stable while placing it on a car dashboard or glass window of your car, home, or office. Setting it up like this on my room's window, with a USB cable hanging on the ledge, gave me a power outlet-like setting, but using solar energy.
Jignesh wants the product to be used as a primary source and not as a backup device. He claims that a unit of Evaki Solar Power Pad, if used daily, can save around 2kWh to 10kWh of energy in a year. Evaki's vision is to design and develop electronic devices that are energy efficient, which in turn can lead to a sustainable planet.
