Apple has certainly drummed up enough buzz and fervor to usher in its newest innovation, the Apple Watch. Now all that is left to do is actually start selling it. Apple Watch: 27.8 million units in 2016? Shipment and sales estimates are all over the map, but the latest edition of the Adobe Digital Index discovered "unexpected demand for Apple Watch." ADI principal Tamara Gaffney explained in the report as to why Apple Watch "might take off a little bit more than one would think." Specifically, researchers found approximately 27 percent of consumers polled who don't currently own a smartwatch said they are very likely to buy one in next six months. Furthermore, roughly 67 percent of the sample group cited they would most likely buy the Apple Watch. The assessment reinforces a forecast from Strategy Analytics last week. Heralding the Apple Watch as the device that will "ignite" the smartwatch market, analysts also predicted the iPhone maker will dominate more than half of the nascent vertical in less than a year. It should be noted Adobe's findings, based on a survey of more than 1,000 U.S. consumers, was published on Sunday evening before the Apple Watch event that took place in San Francisco on Monday morning. This particular update for the Adobe Digital Index zeroed in on consumer video viewing habits across mobile platforms (i.e. (smartphones, tablets, etc.), as well as market share data and interest for iOS devices, wearables (i.e. Apple Watch) and general Internet of Things devices. Other results from the latest Adobe Digital Index in Apple's favor stemmed from digital video viewing on the rise. As video starts nearly doubled on smartphones, the iPad remained king in the tablet space as the most popular device for streaming TV content with 29 percent of the market share during the fourth quarter of 2014. As for Internet browsing in general, the iPad accounted for more than 70 percent of all usage across more than half of the 40 countries measured for the report, with even higher results in the United States and China with 77 percent and 81 percent respectively. Interestingly, one spot where Apple has some catching up to do would be sports streaming and browsing. Adobe researchers saw the share of sports viewing content on Android devices double year-over-year from 11 percent to 21 percent in Q4. Additionally, the frequency of viewing content from an Android device grew faster than any other mobile platform, shooting up by 37 percent year over.
