Microsoft's big push into holographic mixed reality computing tied into Windows 10 spurs the imagination, but is likely to move into the enterprise as well as a bunch of verticals. The software giant's Windows 10 powwow in Redmond on Wednesday had a little something---Cortana, universal apps, collaboration and cloud tools such as Surface Hub and bridges between devices---but the real kicker was Microsoft's holographic ambitions. The company demonstrated HoloLens, outlined HoloStudio for developers and noted that Windows 10 will have all the pieces needed for holographic apps. Microsoft readies new Surface Hub conferencing system | Windows 10: The big questions ahead That heady move caught most observers by surprise. In Microsoft's view everything from Skype to Minecraft to Office could be holographic friendly. | Image 1 of 18 While a lot of the HoloLens walkthrough was for consumers, there were a lot of areas that were clearly business focused. In fact, the Windows 10 event was supposed to be more consumer, but most of the features outlined applied to the enterprise. There's a good reason for that: Windows 10 has to get the enterprise on board since companies are on Windows 7 and basically shunning Windows 8. It's not a surprise that Microsoft's HoloLens demonstration highlighted motorcycle design, NASA collaborations and training. At the event in Redmond, Microsoft was pushing the business uses of HoloLens hard. Ed Bott, who was on scene, said enterprise development should be straightforward at least in theory. Developing for the HoloLens is in theory just a matter of using some new APIs in your existing Windows app development toolset. So it shouldn't require any extra skills, just a vision of how you want to use the "gaze, gesture, and voice" capabilities that the new hardware brings to apps. The resulting apps are Windows Universal apps. My experience with the Skype app was straightforward: The person on the other end of the call could see what I was seeing and mark up my field of vision, circling a thing I needed to pay attention to, and drawing a diagram of where I needed to make something happen. So if you're a CIO what do you do with this holographic happy Microsoft? For starters, consider adding the HoloLens and HoloStudio to the labs to see what the business case could be. Since it'll be hooked into Windows 10, the holographic efforts may be easily added to your evaluation.All About Windows 10The last major version of Microsoft's Windows client operating system will have a common core that works across all platforms, from PCs and tablets to Windows Phones, Xbox and the Internet of things Some of the holographic items to ponder: Simply put, Microsoft's holographic efforts could be a boon to the enterprise. The catch? Microsoft historically doesn't nail it with the first version of anything. HoloLens and HoloStudio (not to mention Windows 10) may not be ready for business use right out of the gate. Should you jump the holographic computing gun it's likely you'll find yourself in the land of boondoggles. But by all means do the holographic homework. Microsoft's future iterations of HoloLens are likely to be adopted in the enterprise.
