IBM on Monday launched a series technologies and services that aim to make it easier to move data across clouds and on-premise data centers. Big Blue also committed to devoting half of its cloud developers to creating open services and platforms.The Art Of The Hybrid CloudCloud computing is insatiably gobbling up more of the backend services that power businesses. But, some companies have apps with privacy, security, and regulatory demands that preclude the cloud. Here's how to find the right mix of public cloud and private cloud.The latest round launches from IBM mark the beginning of the second year of the company's cloud investment. In 2014, IBM built out its SoftLayer public cloud infrastructure, rolled out a bevy of hybrid data center building blocks and landed more customers. IBM's game plan is to grow its cloud business fast enough to offset other units that are struggling such as hardware. IBM's plan is to develop a hybrid cloud platform that integrates services in one place as big data will require companies to mix and match computing resources. In IBM's view, the company can be the "common denominator" across clouds. This strategy has become increasingly common among enterprise IT giants. Cisco sees itself as a strong enterprise interconnection point for cloud services. HP has bet on OpenStack like the rest of the industry. VMware has a bevy of partnerships and connections to cloud services. The list could go on. Among the key services launched under IBM's hybrid rallying cry:To back up that long list of additions, IBM also launched new SoftLayer cloud centers in Sydney and Montreal. The data centers open within the month and will round out new facilities in Frankfurt, Querétaro, Mexico, and Tokyo. SoftLayer will also open new centers in Milan, Italy and Chennai, India in 2015. IBM, however, can only broaden its cloud footprint among customers so far by itself. The company also said it will expand partnerships with CSC and Tech Mahindra to be cloud integration partners.Six Clicks: Shopping around for cloud storageCSC and IBM said they will partner to help customers adopt Bluemix as well as SoftLayer. CSC offers a variety of hybrid cloud deployment services. The partnership will focus on joint customers. Bluemix will be offered as a public or private single-tenant platform. The partnership with Tech Mahindra has a similar theme. The partnership revolves around Bluemix and SoftLayer. IBM will offer Tech Mahindra developers a platform for cloud applications. In return, Tech Mahindra will train 5,000 of its developers to build on Bluemix. For its part, Tech Mahindra will also use Bluemix to primarily focus on DevOps and Internet of things applications. More:
