Though the PC market is no longer seen as the massive growth industry it once (recently) was, that hasn't stopped budding entrepreneurs from trying to shake things up via crowd-funded projects (even if they may not seem as sexy as other tech-related devices).With the drastic reduction in parts costs (sometimes including reliance on a free operating system like Linux) and the ability for small firms to lower manufacturing costs, you no longer need to be an Apple or HP to produce a computer that looks professional. Thanks to crowd-funding sites like Kickstarter and Indiegogo, would-be Steve Jobs can pitch their ideas to the public and get the money they need to turn their computing visions into reality.Six Clicks: Last year's most exciting crowdfunded tech devicesNeed help getting your project or business off the ground? Here are some of the most interesting, exciting and innovative tech-related crowdfunding campaigns of the last 12 months. Here's a look at some of the most successful crowd-funded PCs offered to date, along with a couple of other interesting projects that haven't reached their fundraising goals yet. We'll start with a few that have made enough waves that they've already graced the ZDNet site. Jolla Tablet Finnish company Jolla is crowd-funding royalty, having secured huge amounts of cash for its tablet after making a name for itself by releasing a handset based on its Sailfish version of the MeeGo operating system. The Jolla Tablet went hundreds of thousands of dollars over its initial funding goals on Indiegogo, thanks to its impressive specs (Intel processor, 2,048x1,536 8-inch screen) and innovative OS. While the first iteration of the Jolla Tablet included 32GB of built-in storage, the company has gone back to the Indiegogo well to seek more money to produce a 64GB version.NovenaAnother computer that smashed its fundraising goals is Novena, an open-source computer platform that has tripled its initial requirements at Crowd Supply. Novena is based around a Freescale iMX6 ARM CPU and offers a number of options for would-be tinkerers: $550 for the circuit board to build a system around, $1,315 for an all-in-one PC version (complete with 1080p HD display), and $2,195 for a laptop. (A $5,000 "heirloom laptop with a wood case is no longer available.) Those prices are obviously higher than typical commercial versions, but Novena gives hackers access to nearly everything, including operating system (though it ships with the Debian version of Linux), in a way that "closed" systems don't usually allow.Librem 15 Like Novena, the Purism Librem 15 laptop is built on Linux, though it's emphasizing the OS experience rather than hardware hacking. While there have been a few Linux-based notebooks available over the years, the Librem 15 is trying to make its platform as open as possible to maximize freedom and privacy (its terms). For instance, it hopes to get Intel's BIOS code opened up, and Purism is manufacturing its own motherboard. It's not skimping on specs, either, as the Librem 15 will ship with a Core i7-4770HQ processor, 4GB of RAM, 500GB hard drive and 1,920x1,080 for the base $1,900 configuration. It can handle up to 32GB of RAM, 1TB of storage, and a 3,840x2,160 display if you're willing to pay more when the first laptops start shipping in April.KanoThe huge success of Raspberry Pi, , has spurred a mini-industry of Pi-based products looking to be funded via Kickstarter and its ilk. Kano is one of the slickest and most well-funded, lapping its initial $100,000 goal more than 15 times. It provides a Pi-powered mini-computer in a box, complete with a tiny custom case, a cute little orange keyboard and touchpad, and even a diminutive external speaker. You also get beautifully illustrated instructions on how to put the Kano together, which its Kickstarter site shows can be assembled in a couple of minutes. The $119 $150 kit (or $999 for a 10-pack, since the Kano is designed to be kid friendly for educational purposes) even includes your name being inserted into the Kano source code, something Apple probably won't be doing anytime soon.Pi-TopWhile Kickstarter has Kano, Indiegogo has Pi-Top, a successfully funded laptop project built on Raspberry Pi. DIY laptops have never caught on the same way that building your own desktop PC has, but Pi-Top more than doubled its funding goals for hacker types that want to create a notebook around the Raspberry Pi Model B+. (One of its "stretch" goals it could meet with the extra funding is support for alternative boards like BeagleBone Black.) For $299 ($50 less if you already have a Pi board of your own), it comes with an injection-molded case, 13.3-inch LCD, battery, keyboard, touchpad, and everything else you need to put it together. Once you've assembled it, Pi-Top's founders hope you use it to learn more about your own devices for home automation, robots, and more through lesson plans it's integrated into the laptop as well as placing online.TangoNot to be confused with Microsoft's one-time Windows Phone OS update, the Tango project (run on both Kickstarter and Indiegogo) proves that Linux isn't the only OS that can have a crowd-funded PC. Tango is a Windows PC (either Windows 7 or 8.1) that fits in your pocket, yet somehow still manages to pack an AMD A6-5200 quad-core processor, anywhere from 2GB to 8GB of RAM, and a solid-state drive. It does this by offloading some of the parts -- such as the heatsink, fan, and connectors-- onto its docking station, which transfers a lot of the heat away from the portable PC unit. Tango is already being sold from $349, but the one catch is that it only comes with a trial version of Windows 7, so factor in the price of a Windows license as well. Of course, Tango can also run Linux if you choose.NeutronTango isn't the only crowd-funded mini Windows PC in town. It didn't raise nearly as much money as Tango, but Neutron went over its more modest funding goal. Neutron doesn't offer the same type of tricks that Tango does to reduce its footprint, but it's still fairly small while providing more powerful computing. Plus, you can't miss its plastic case in a choice of seven striking colors. It make use of the same boards Intel devised for its Next Unit of Computing (NUC) systems, with one configuration including a Core i3 Haswell processor and the other a Core i5 CPU. The less-powerful version comes with 8GB of RAM and a 256GB SSD, whereas the beefier edition doubles the RAM and provides 480GB of solid-state storage. Not surprisingly, Neutron is pricier than Tango, with the cheapest unit starting at $750 and not even shipping with an operating system. Others versions ship with Windows 8.1, though, again, Linux is always an option.Modbook Pro XModbook has been offering tablet versions of MacBook Pro laptops for years -- a Frankenstein-like process of taking one apart and then putting it back together as a slate device with a digitizer pen. With its Pro X version, the company took to Kickstarter to get its Retina display-based project funded -- and proceeded to more than double its goal. Modbook not only offers its own versions of the Pro X (starting at $3,999), but will also convert your own MacBook Pro with Retina display from $1,999. Options include Modbook's keybars, a set of command buttons that are affixed to the back of the Pro X, or a keyboard stand that turns the tablet back into a computer (made without irony, apparently). LumytRather than focusing on the maker crowd, the British founders behind Lumyt are aiming for PC enthusiasts who have felt stifled by their inability to upgrade laptops fully. The new project hopes to offer a notebook where you can upgrade nearly everything, including the motherboard. Modules like USB ports and an audio card will connect to the motherboard via cables rather than being integrated on it. To keep the laptop slimmer and lighter, Lumyt's founders foresee using an external graphics card in its own housing rather than placing a discrete board inside the notebook. It's early days for the project, with just a handful of backers, but 600 pounds (about $920) will get you a basic 15-inch Lumyt (with extension housing but no graphics cards), 900 pounds ($1,380) brings you a 15-inch version with graphics card, and 1,100 pounds ($1,690) earns you a 17-inch edition when (and if) the systems become available in 2016.Phantom OneAn idea cool enough to be noticed by Maximum PC, but currently needing many more backers to reach its goal, Phantom One wants to bring ultimate style to the small-form-factor PC. If funded, the Phantom One would be the first computer sheathed in bamboo, laser cut from a single sheet to provide a consistent look to the grain. Founding company One Technology claims it has developed a unique system to manage heat to make a bamboo-clad desktop possible, despite high-powered components like an Intel Core i7-4790k processor and Nvidia GeForce GTX 970 graphics. The bamboo Phantom One would cost $1,700 for early birds -- $1,650 gets you a version covered in black acrylic instead -- which is $250 less than it was just a few days ago.Gallery:Browse the crowd-funded PCs | Image 1 of 10 Finnish company Jolla is crowd-funding royalty, having secured huge amounts of cash for its tablet after making a name for itself by releasing a handset based on its Sailfish version of the MeeGo operating system. The Jolla Tablet went hundreds of thousands of dollars over its initial funding goals on Indiegogo, thanks to its impressive specs (Intel processor, 2,048x1,536 8-inch screen) and innovative OS. While the first iteration of the Jolla Tablet included 32GB of built-in storage, the company has gone back to the Indiegogo well to seek more money to produce a 64GB version.See all PCs on a single page.Another computer that smashed its fundraising goals is Novena, an open-source computer platform that has tripled its initial requirements at Crowd Supply. Novena is based around a Freescale iMX6 ARM CPU and offers a number of options for would-be tinkerers: $550 for the circuit board to build a system around, $1,315 for an all-in-one PC version (complete with 1080p HD display), and $2,195 for a laptop. (A $5,000 "heirloom laptop with a wood case is no longer available.) Those prices are obviously higher than typical commercial versions, but Novena gives hackers access to nearly everything, including operating system (though it ships with the Debian version of Linux), in a way that "closed" systems don't usually allow.Like Novena, the Purism Librem 15 laptop is built on Linux, though it's emphasizing the OS experience rather than hardware hacking. While there have been a few Linux-based notebooks available over the years, the Librem 15 is trying to make its platform as open as possible to maximize freedom and privacy (its terms). For instance, it hopes to get Intel's BIOS code opened up, and Purism is manufacturing its own motherboard. It's not skimping on specs, either, as the Librem 15 will ship with a Core i7-4770HQ processor, 4GB of RAM, 500GB hard drive and 1,920x1,080 for the base $1,900 configuration. It can handle up to 32GB of RAM, 1TB of storage, and a 3,840x2,160 display if you're willing to pay more when the first laptops start shipping in April.The huge success of Raspberry Pi, , has spurred a mini-industry of Pi-based products looking to be funded via Kickstarter and its ilk. Kano is one of the slickest and most well-funded, lapping its initial $100,000 goal more than 15 times. It provides a Pi-powered mini-computer in a box, complete with a tiny custom case, a cute little orange keyboard and touchpad, and even a diminutive external speaker. You also get beautifully illustrated instructions on how to put the Kano together, which its Kickstarter site shows can be assembled in a couple of minutes. The $119 kit (or $999 for a 10-pack, since the Kano is designed to be kid friendly for educational purposes) even includes your name being inserted into the Kano source code, something Apple probably won't be doing anytime soon.While Kickstarter has Kano, Indiegogo has Pi-Top, a successfully funded laptop project built on Raspberry Pi. DIY laptops have never caught on the same way that building your own desktop PC has, but Pi-Top more than doubled its funding goals for hacker types that want to create a notebook around the Raspberry Pi Model B+. (One of its "stretch" goals it could meet with the extra funding is support for alternative boards like BeagleBone Black.) For $299 ($50 less if you already have a Pi board of your own), it comes with an injection-molded case, 13.3-inch LCD, battery, keyboard, touchpad, and everything else you need to put it together. Once you've assembled it, Pi-Top's founders hope you use it to learn more about your own devices for home automation, robots, and more through lesson plans it's integrated into the laptop as well as placing online.Not to be confused with Microsoft's one-time Windows Phone OS update, the Tango project (run on both Kickstarter and Indiegogo) proves that Linux isn't the only OS that can have a crowd-funded PC. Tango is a Windows PC (either Windows 7 or 8.1) that fits in your pocket, yet somehow still manages to pack an AMD A6-5200 quad-core processor, anywhere from 2GB to 8GB of RAM, and a solid-state drive. It does this by offloading some of the parts -- such as the heatsink, fan, and connectors-- onto its docking station, which transfers a lot of the heat away from the portable PC unit. Tango is already being sold from $349, but the one catch is that it only comes with a trial version of Windows 7, so factor in the price of a Windows license as well. Of course, Tango can also run Linux if you choose.Tango isn't the only crowd-funded mini Windows PC in town. It didn't raise nearly as much money as Tango, but Neutron went over its more modest funding goal. Neutron doesn't offer the same type of tricks that Tango does to reduce its footprint, but it's still fairly small while providing more powerful computing. Plus, you can't miss its plastic case in a choice of seven striking colors. It make use of the same boards Intel devised for its Next Unit of Computing (NUC) systems, with one configuration including a Core i3 Haswell processor and the other a Core i5 CPU. The less-powerful version comes with 8GB of RAM and a 256GB SSD, whereas the beefier edition doubles the RAM and provides 480GB of solid-state storage. Not surprisingly, Neutron is pricier than Tango, with the cheapest unit starting at $750 and not even shipping with an operating system. Others versions ship with Windows 8.1, though, again, Linux is always an option.Modbook has been offering tablet versions of MacBook Pro laptops for years -- a Frankenstein-like process of taking one apart and then putting it back together as a slate device with a digitizer pen. With its Pro X version, the company took to Kickstarterto get its Retina display-based project funded -- and proceeded to more than double its goal. Modbook not only offers its own versions of the Pro X (starting at $3,999), but will also convert your own MacBook Pro with Retina display from $1,999. Options include Modbook's keybars, a set of command buttons that are affixed to the back of the Pro X, or a keyboard stand that turns the tablet back into a computer (made without irony, apparently).Rather than focusing on the maker crowd, the British founders behind Lumyt are aiming for PC enthusiasts who have felt stifled by their inability to upgrade laptops fully. The new project hopes to offer a notebook where you can upgrade nearly everything, including the motherboard. Modules like USB ports and an audio card will connect to the motherboard via cables rather than being integrated on it. To keep the laptop slimmer and lighter, Lumyt's founders foresee using an external graphics card in its own housing rather than placing a discrete board inside the notebook. It's early days for the project, with just a handful of backers, but 600 pounds (about $920) will get you a basic 15-inch Lumyt (with extension housing but no graphics cards), 900 pounds ($1,380) brings you a 15-inch version with graphics card, and 1,100 pounds ($1,690) earns you a 17-inch edition when (and if) the systems become available in 2016.An idea cool enough to be noticed by Maximum PC, but currently needing many more backers to reach its goal, Phantom One wants to bring ultimate style to the small-form-factor PC. If funded, the Phantom One would be the first computer sheathed in bamboo, laser cut from a single sheet to provide a consistent look to the grain. Founding company One Technology claims it has developed a unique system to manage heat to make a bamboo-clad desktop possible, despite high-powered components like an Intel Core i7-4790k processor and Nvidia GeForce GTX 970 graphics. The bamboo Phantom One would cost $1,700 for early birds -- $1,650 gets you a version covered in black acrylic instead -- which is $250 less than it was just a few days ago.
