Last year, Red Hat decided that the 64-bit ARM architecture was ready for the data center and cloud. This year, Red Hat announced that its Red Hat ARM Partner Early Access Program has expanded to include more than 35 companies. It also expects them to contribute open-source system-specific software and drivers to the upstream Linux ARM community. Red Hat's ARM partners now include silicon vendors and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) to independent software vendors (ISVs). Many of these companies are already Linaro members. Linaro is the non-profit engineering organization devoted to developing open source ARM architecture software. The goal of both is to make ARM servers ready for the most demanding enterprise server workloads. Red Hat claims that: This follows up on Red Hat's earlier ARM Linux efforts. In January 2014, Red Hat helped create ARM's Server Base System Architecture (SBSA). SBSA is meant to accelerate software development on multiple 64-bit ARM platforms. Still earlier, in May 2013, Red Hat showed with its Fedora community-based Linux that Fedora could work well on a cluster of four 24 Viridis high-density ARM servers using Calxeda System Server on a Chip (SoC).Microservers: A Data Center Revolution?The rise of cloud computing has put new and different demands on data center capacity. Powered by smaller chips like the ones in mobile devices, microservers have emerged to help meet the needs of 'scaling out' and to produce servers that are lower cost and lower power. What's pushing the Linux ARM movement is cost-savings. A 64-bit ARM powered microserver has a thermal design power (TDP) of between 10 and 45 watts. A conventional x86 server runs more than 90 watts. The lower the power consumption the lower the direct server utility bills and the lower the overall data center running costs. ZDNet estimated that the kilowatt hour cost for commercial use per year per server in 2013 was $731.94. Cutting those costs in half is something that makes any CIO look great to the CEO and CFO. In a statement, Mike Werner, Red Hat's senior director of Global Technology Ecosystems, said: Data-center and cloud customers are waiting eagerly to see those solutions on their server racks. Related Stories:
