There have been some intriguing developments in making smartphones modular, which not only would allow users to customize them but also help to keep them from going obsolete. Most notable is Google's Project Ara, but there have been a couple of alternative projects as well.Handsets where you can upgrade hardware as easily as software have always been a dream for consumers. Now, that dream is fast becoming a reality.The modular concept is a natural fit for tablets as well, and while none has garnered the attention of Project Ara, there have been attempts over the years. Though they haven't become mainstream hits, that hasn't stopped development of a new modular slate that will test the waters in a limited edition.Dubbed the Click-ARM One, it's being offered by Spanish firm ImasD. The tablet consists of four parts that can be swapped in and out as needed: the CK PCB-HUB for connectivity options, the CK Module with 16GB of flash storage, the CK Core for the processor and RAM, and finally a 10.1-inch 1,280x800 touchscreen.The "ARM" in the tablet's name might throw you off, as it has nothing to do with the processor manufacturer ARM. Instead, it stands for "Advance Removable Modules," and, in fact, the CK Core includes a Samsung Exynos 4412 quad-core processor, along with 2GB of RAM. In addition to ImasD's own modules, third parties can create their own and connect them via the Mini PCI Express interface.One example of how modularity might work for users comes to the operating system. Click-ARM One supports Android, Ubuntu Touch, and Tizen, and conceivably you could have a module with each OS installed on it. ImasD also promises that you can purchase the modules and use a 3D printer to create your own case to house them.For right now, the company is only offering a pre-built tablet in a limited edition of 1,000. Presumably, if that initial run is successful, more options would become available. Along with modularity, the Click-ARM One has a reasonable price going for it: 289 euros, which works out to roughly $313, though you'll need to contact the company if you are outside Spain and want to purchase the tablet.[Via Liliputing]
