http://feeds.washingtonpost.com/c/34656/f/636655/s/446cae14/sc/8/l/0L0Swashingtonpost0N0Cpolitics0Cfederal0Igovernment0Cobama0Etalks0Eabout0Etrust0Eto0Eworkers0Eduring0Evisit0Eto0Eva0Ewait0Elist0Escandal0Esite0C20A150C0A30C150C0A630A0A6f20Ec9cb0E11e40Ea1990E6cb5e63819d20Istory0Bhtml0Dwprss0Frss0Ipolitics/story01.htm
Obama talks about trust to workers during visit to VA wait list scandal site
President Obama went to the scene of the misdeeds when he visited the Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Phoenix on Friday. It was there, almost a year ago, where the scandal over the coverup of bogus patient wait times erupted. As the revelations flowed, there proved to be many misdeeds around the country, often centered on vindictive treatment by VA management against employee whistleblowers. The VA secretary was forced out. Joe Davidson writes the Federal Diary, a column about the federal workplace that celebrated its 80th birthday in November 2012. Obama visited Phoenix not to claim victory that the afflicted agency had been healed, but to inspect the repair job. “We all know that there have been significant problems at this facility, that the kind of cooking the books and unwillingness to face up to the fact that veterans were not being adequately served went on too long, and as a consequence, we didn’t fix what needed to be fixed,” he said after a roundtable meeting in the hospital. In addition to politicians and top national and local VA officials, several hospital workers and an American Federation of Government Employees representative met with the president. Among them was Monique Rivers, a seven-year VA nurse who said she “wanted to make sure this new batch of leadership would have the mission and vision of the veterans at heart.” She’s concerned that hospital management could “stray away, as they did before.” Obama assured her there would be training and continuing education for mangers to help them stay on mission, a response Rivers found “encouraging.” The president was “very engaged as to what was going on,” she added. “He addressed every concern.” Although Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), who participated in the meeting, dismissed it as “a photo-op for the president,” the labor leader representing most VA employees nationally was very impressed. “I have never known a president to go to a VA medical center before and request to meet with employees,” said AFGE President J. David Cox Sr., who was not at the meeting. “That’s as impressive as it gets.” He joined VA as a registered nurse in 1984. After the roundtable, Obama said, “every veteran who I talked to here today emphasized that when it came to the actual care that people were receiving once in the system, it was outstanding; that there were great doctors, great nurses, great staff who care deeply about our veterans.” But he also spoke about “the need to restore trust and confidence in the VA system. . . The good news is that there are outstanding folks here at this VA and all the VAs across the country who are deserving of trust.” The case of Sharon Helman, the ousted former director of the Phoenix VA, is one reason that trust suffered. Helman faced allegations, not upheld on appeal, related to the wait time scandal. But other charges stuck. She accepted a long line of gifts, a December ruling said, including five tickets to a Beyoncé show and an $11,000 family trip to Disneyland from a consultant to a health-care company seeking business with a VA clinic under her management. A federal administrative judge, however, later ruled VA must repay the Senior Executive Service member $5,624.80 in performance pay it had taken from her wages. Judge Alan R. Caramella said the department’s action was premature and violated the law. “The VA is reminded that it may not take any further collection action until I issue a final written decision,” Caramella said in his Feb. 25 order. VA took the money from her wages from August 2014 through the pay period ending on Nov. 29, according to Caramella’s order, which was reported by the Washington Examiner. He is with the U.S. Postal Service, which provides administrative-judge services to VA. His ruling says VA violated a section of the law “which specifically provides that the agency must suspend collection actions to allow for notice and a hearing.”VA and Helman’s lawyer had no comment on the case. Another hearing is scheduled for April 29.Meanwhile, Cox is still beaming following his March 7 meeting with Obama in Selma, Ala. Cox was invited to walk with Obama, former president George W. Bush and civil rights foot soldiers commemorating the 50th anniversary of the Bloody Sunday march across the Edmund Pettus Bridge. Cox said he used his moment of face time with Obama to tell him, “Boss man, it’s time for a raise.” Standing nearby was Bush, who did not have good relations with federal labor unions. But now that he’s out of office, he felt free to turn to Obama and say, “Give these guys a raise,” Cox said. Obama replied, “This is the second time they asked me for a raise today.” There was laughter all around, but also, Cox said, “a definite sending of the message.” Twitter: Staff researcher Eddy Palanzo contributed to this report. Previous columns by Joe Davidson are available at wapo.st/JoeDavidson.
