http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2014/08/01/can-the-gop-capitalize-on-new-york-gov-andrew-cuomos-corruption-trouble
Andrew Cuomo's No Good, Very Bad Week
For New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo it’s been an amazingly, incredibly, incalculably, stunningly bad week.
Ever since the New York Times published an in-depth examination of the role the governor and some of his top aides allegedly played in first obstructing and then abolishing the Moreland Commission – a state government corruption probe that was getting uncomfortably close to some of Cuomo’s friends and allies – his political fortunes have faltered. What was once an almost certain re-election effort is now truly in doubt, despite the fact that Cuomo continues to lead his Republican opponent, Westchester County Executive Rob Astorino, by double digits.
Things are only going to get worse for the governor. All three major New York City dailies – including the one owned by the same person who owns U.S. News and World Report – are on the story. Each one is digging up facts that are putting Cuomo firmly into the hot seat.
[: Cartoons on the Democratic Party]
Unfortunately the New York State GOP is not in a good position to take advantage of the governor’s missteps; mostly it doesn’t have the money, despite heroic efforts by state party chairman Ed Cox. Cuomo continues to outraise Astorino by about 10 to 1, and no wonder, since key elements of the state’s Republican power structure made an early decision to throw in with the Democrat. It’s difficult to find people willing to cross swords with powerful and well-connected folks like Home Depot co-founder Ken Langone and former U.S. Sen. Alphonse D’Amato, who both apparently want to see Cuomo remain in office.
It’s also proving difficult for Astorino to gain traction (which he is doing nonetheless) because national GOP groups like the Republican Governors’ Association are taking a pass on a race it decided, for one reason or another, is unwinnable. As RGA Chairman New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie said recently, his group is not going to be “investing in lost causes.”
It’s a judgment call that other Republicans who might be thinking about running for president – especially Texas Gov. Rick Perry, Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, Ohio Gov. John Kasich and Indiana Gov. Mike Pence – might want to consider pushing the RGA to reconsider. Christie has plenty of time to go to Iowa for Terry Branstad and South Carolina for Nikki Haley – whose re-elections look like easy lay ups – and to New Hampshire, where the Republican candidate for governor is struggling, but he won’t go over the George Washington Bridge (sorry, sore subject) to campaign for Astorino. Then again New York doesn’t have an early primary, but it does have a big delegation to the Republican National Convention which Astorino, if he were governor in 2016, would no doubt lead.
There’s little doubt Christie’s consultants are helping drive the decision-making process. It’s what consultants do. Interestingly enough though, one of the consultants closest to the New Jersey governor – Mike DuHaime – is a former managing partner at a firm called Mercury Public Affairs, which, Kerry Pickett recently reported for Breitbart.com's Big-Government, “has been paid $246k in consulting fees by the RGA since December of 2013.”
[SEE: Cartoons on Chris Christie]
DuHaime has quite a pedigree. As chief strategist, he guided Christie to victory in his first race for governor. And he headed up former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani’s 2008 presidential bid – which probably has nothing to do with the fact that Giuliani, who could be a tremendous help to Astorino, recently began telling people he would not make an endorsement in the New York governor’s race. On the surface that’s not such a big deal. Consultants at the top of the game tend to attract high profile candidates – and husband that resource as best they can for as long as they can.
What might be a big deal is that three other Mercury partners – Mike McKeon, Tom Doherty and Kieran Mahoney (who all at one time or another worked for former New York GOP Gov. George Pataki) – are, according to well-placed GOP insiders in New York, running a well-heeled and well-funded group called "Republicans for Cuomo."
So, to break it down you have, within the same firm, money coming in from the RGA to help elect Republicans to governorships across the country, the chief strategist for the RGA chairman, and three partners said be overseeing an effort to re-elect a Democratic governor in Albany. To call that merely curious is an understatement.
As Pickett wrote, there are other things that link Mercury to Cuomo – but it’s a puzzlement as to why the other GOP governors, as well as major Republican and conservative donors outside New York State, are willing to overlook it. Are they all sold on Christie for 2016 already and don’t want to rock the boat or is it that they just don’t know? Or is it something else? No one can truly be sure of the reasons.
What they can know is that, as Cuomo sinks deeper into a mess of his own making, the Republicans – who in Rob Astorino have a smart, competent county executive who has proven he can wins votes from Democrats, who appeals to voters who are not traditionally Republican, who is pro-life, anti-tax, pro-Second Amendment, and who is the kind of Reaganite candidate that comes along but once in a while, especially in the Northeast – are not ready to take advantage of the situation when, not if, lightning strikes.
