http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/robert-schlesinger/2015/01/20/state-of-the-union-address-2015-trivia-history-firsts-and-facts
State of the Union Firsts, Mosts and Onlies
My colleagues David Catanese and Gabrielle Levy are largely correct: The State of the Union address has lost its luster and relevance and I would be very surprised if the viewership totals don’t reflect that, to President Barack Obama’s undoubted dismay. But even a relatively trivialized address to the nation carries with it loads of, well, trivia. Here, with the aid of both U.C. Santa Barbara’s invaluable American Presidency Project and my own (also invaluable, really!) “ White House Ghosts: Presidents and Their Speechwriters” are some firsts, mosts and onlies regarding the nation’s annual political dog-and-pony show.
First “State of the Union” address: While George Washington had, not surprisingly, been the first president to deliver an annual report to Congress, it wasn’t until Franklin Roosevelt’s 1934 address that the speech was formally called a “State of the Union” address; prior to that it was simply the president’s annual message – and for a long time it wasn’t even spoken. Many people don’t realize it, but the Constitution mandates neither a speech nor a time-frame. Article II, Section 3 of the Constitution mandates that the president “shall from time to time give to the Congress information of the state of the union, and recommend to their consideration such measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient.” Washington set the practice all of his successors have followed, delivering the message annually. And both he and John Adams, our nation’s second president, gave their messages orally; but Thomas Jefferson, who succeeded Adams, worried that lecturing Congress would seem too kingly and sent his messages over in writing, as did every president until Woodrow Wilson started making them speeches again in 1913. Overall, only 81 of 225 of these messages have been delivered as a speech, not including tonight’s.
[SEE: 2014: The Year in Cartoons]
Only presidents who never delivered a State of the Union message: Neither William Henry Harrison (1841) nor James Garfield (1881) lived long enough to send one of these message to Congress at all.
First on the radio: “Silent” Calvin Coolidge was the first president, in 1923, to have his annual speech broadcast over the medium of radio.
First on television: Harry Truman in 1947 was the first president to have a State of the Union broadcast on television.
First in prime time: Lyndon Johnson hit on the idea to have his 1965 speech broadcast in prime time, which would have a larger television audience, instead of the then-traditional midday time.
First responders: Congressional Republicans responded the following year by asking for and receiving time of their own for an official response. That tradition has carried on and tonight’s official response will come from freshman Iowa Sen. Joni Ernst. In the last couple of years it has become chic to have multiple responses and tonight is no different. In addition to Ernst, Rep. Carlos Curbelo, a Florida Republican, will deliver the GOP’s Hispanic response, Rep. Curt Clawson, also a Sunshine State GOPer, will give the tea party response and Kentucky GOP Sen. Rand Paul will deliver the Rand Paul response.
First guests: Ronald Reagan ignited the tradition of having a special hero sitting in the first lady’s box when in 1982 he invited Lenny Skutnik, who had weeks earlier saved a passenger from a plane that had crashed into the Potomac River, to sit there. Now every year presidents are expected to pack the box with guests. The latest trend is for members of Congress to try to get a share of the limelight with their own celebrity guests.
[GALLERY: Barack Obama Cartoons]
First on the Web: George W. Bush’s 2002 speech (remembered mostly for his reference to an “axis of evil”) was the first livecast online.
Only double-dippers: Harry Truman (written) and Dwight Eisenhower (spoken) each delivered a State of the Union message in 1953. When Eisenhower was preparing to leave office eight years later, he sent a written message to Congress 18 days before his successor, John F. Kennedy, gave a State of the Union speech. JFK followed up with a second State of the Union that May, making 1961 the only year with three such messages. In recent years incoming presidents have given special addresses to Congress which are not technically State of the Union speeches but for all intents and purposes are.
Longest State of the Union: Well that depends on your definition of the word “longest.” Jimmy Carter’s 1981 lame duck message was a whopping 33,667 words long (thankfully it was written). Bill Clinton delivered the most verbiage in a State of the Union speech at 9,190 words in 1995, while he took the most time ever in his 2000 speech, which went on for one hour, 28 minutes and 49 seconds.
Here’s hoping that Obama doesn’t break any of those records tonight.
