http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/robert-schlesinger/2014/09/17/clinton-nostalgia-syndrome-1990s-werent-a-time-of-bipartisan-bonhommie
Clinton Nostalgia Syndrome: 1990s Weren’t a Time of Bipartisan Bonhommie - US News
It’s amazing how the idea that “absence makes the heart grow fonder” expresses itself in the weird world of Washington. One of the more entertaining instances is what I call Clinton Nostalgia Syndrome, where Republicans – especially those who were in Congress in the mid and late 1990s – yearn for the halcyon days of bipartisan compromise that, in their memory, carried the day during the Clinton presidency. There was a brief outbreak of Clinton Nostalgia Syndrome this morning at the “National Strategic Agenda” conference put together by No Labels. Appearing with a dozen of his colleagues from both parties, Arizona GOP Rep. Matt Salmon – asked what the problem in Washington was – bemoaned the absence of the Great Triangulator.
Of course, in the breach Salmon raised that figurative right arm to vote in favor of all four articles of impeachment. So while Salmon yearns for Clinton now, during his presidency the congressman affirmatively tried to remove the man from office.
The point here isn’t to ding the congressman for hypocrisy – time and hindsight bring wisdom, and good for Salmon for changing his mind. (I assume, anyway, that his current desire to have Bill Clinton back is a sign that he no longer wishes that the president had been convicted and removed.) But it’s a reminder that, while the Clinton presidency did see some bipartisan achievements (budget surpluses and welfare reform, for example), the context of these achievements is also important. It was a time of brutal political warfare, government shutdowns and, oh yeah, impeachment. The Clinton era gave us the concept of “the politics of personal destruction.” Hell, Sidney Blumenthal wrote a whole book called “The Clinton Wars.” As the New York Times’ excellent Peter Baker has written:
[: Cartoons about the Republican Party]
The distinct difference between the 1990s and the 20-teens is that the political survival instinct kicked in in the Clinton years – voters were interested neither in the pure GOP agenda nor in gridlock – in a way that led to genuine compromise. In this decade, “compromise” remains too dirty of a word among a disproportionately strong faction of the GOP. And no, both sides aren’t equally to blame; asymmetric polarization is a real thing. As Illinois GOP Rep. Adam Kinzinger, also appearing at the No Labels event, said:
Political survival instincts – the understanding that the public doesn’t cotton to idiot hijinks like last year’s shutdown – have kicked in enough to tamp down the power of the GOP rabble-rousers. So for example, while Club for Growth and Heritage Action have called for conservatives to vote down the continuing resolution that will keep the government running, the odds of their actually succeeding this time are trivial. As Politico’s Jake Sherman and John Bresnahan reported earlier this week:
[: Cartoons on the Economy] Hey, baby steps, as they say. But these too illustrate the differences between 20-teens gridlock and the imagined go-go bipartisanship of the reign of Clinton: The instinct for political self-preservation has gotten congressional Republicans to stop affirmatively hurting themselves, but they’re still not ready to actually deal on big items and help the country.
