http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/robert-schlesinger/2014/06/26/cochrans-democratic-win-brings-hollow-threats-from-mcdaniel-tea-party
Mississippi Big Talk
The Independent Women’s Forum yesterday released a poll reinforcing what had – with good reason – already become conventional wisdom: that Sen. Thad Cochran held onto the GOP nomination for his seat because African-American voters crossed party lines and saved him.
Cochran’s opponent, state Sen. Chris McDaniel was, of course, the first person to suggest this, thundering against “liberal Democrats” in his concession speech and repeatedly warning that he wants to “be absolutely certain that our Republican primary was won by Republican voters.”
It wasn’t. And guess what: There’s nothing he can do about it.
[GALLERY: Cartoons on the tea party]
So no, the primary wasn’t won by “Republican voters.” But we already knew that. Several media outlets have made this point, including Alec MacGillis at The New Republic:
So those dastardly liberal Democrats did indeed swing the election. What’s McDaniel going to do about it? His campaign issued a statement yesterday promising that his “team will look into the irregularities [in the election] to determine whether a challenge is warranted.” Spoiler alert: They won’t. There’s nothing to be gained from it. As Rick Hasen wrote in the Election Law Blog yesterday:
Couldn’t keeping his supporters stoked be a good idea in case McDaniel wants to run a write-in campaign against the Republican In Name Only Cochran? No – he can’t run that way. And even a racially insensitive “lost cause” romanticist like McDaniel must understand the poor optics of trying to make “voting irregularities” synonymous with “black people voting.”
[SEE: Cartoons about the Republican Party]
As the Washington Post has reported, many of these national groups are little more than fundraising vehicles anyway, more intent on mining tea party wallets than marshaling a grassroots movement. Even if national conservatives were to split off and somehow kept the money train rolling for a few months until the next election, it would derail pretty quickly when their efforts as a new party proved even more futile than their misadventures in this year’s GOP primaries.
