http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/robert-schlesinger/2014/04/08/top-democrat-welcomes-obama-onto-2014-campaign-trail
Embracing Obama
President Barack Obama presents quite a dilemma for Democratic candidates this year. They can’t run away from him, but given his upside down approval ratings (43 percent approve and 52.8 disapprove, according to the latest Real Clear Politics average of polls) do any dare run with him? One top House Democrat gave the answer as a resounding yes this morning.
“The president has offered to be there and I’m confident that he will continue to be there,” Maryland Rep. Chris Van Hollen said. “It’s very important to have the president fully engaged as he’s more than willing to be.” When I asked him if he thinks Obama is welcome on the trail by Democrats, Van Hollen said that he will be. “I think he is,” the lawmaker said at a press breakfast sponsored by the Christian Science Monitor. “As you know every state and every district is a little different, but if the number one priority here is to make sure that the Democrats get out the core vote then my view is that having the president out there on behalf of candidates is very important, reminding Democratic voters of the unfinished business that is before us.”
Republicans are, not surprisingly, more skeptical of how effective Obama can be on the trail. Sean Spicer, the Republican National Committee's communications director, quips in an email that Van Hollen has found a bipartisan "area of agreement. We too welcome the president on the campaign trail. We suggest he start in Alaska and then consider Louisiana or North Carolina next." Those three are states Obama lost in 2012 with competitive Senate races this year.
But Van Hollen, the top Democrat on the House Budget Committee, knows what he’s talking about – he chaired the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee in both good years (2008) and lean ones (2010). And the point he makes is key: The party’s number one priority had better be to get out its core vote, because the biggest obstacle it faces this year isn’t Obama’s approval ratings or the Affordable Care Act’s, but rather the fact that base Democrats chronically don’t turn out in midterm elections.
[See a collection of political cartoons on the Democratic Party.]
Overall, Van Hollen said there are two pieces to the Democratic turnout effort this year: having a message that resonates with base voters (think minimum wage, immigration reform and pay equity) and then being able to “deliver that message to where the voters are” (think the Obama team’s now-legendary targeting and turnout effort in 2012).
He made one other interesting point about the difference between 2010 and 2014. “In 2010 in addition to the turnout issue, Democrats also lost the swing voters, the persuadable voters,” he said. “In this case the Republican message is not resonating with the swing voters.” He specifically pointed to the GOP’s monomaniacal focus on repealing Obamacare. “That issue no longer has much ability to persuade what we call persuadables,” he said. “Now does it work to help get out the Republican base? Sure. … But I don’t think they’re winning over any of the persuadable voters.”
He has a point: A recent Kaiser Health Tracking Poll found that 53 percent of Americans are tired of hearing about Obamacare.
[See a collection of political cartoons on the Republican Party.]
But of course as president Obama remains the inescapable force at the center of the political universe. Real Clear Politics’ Caitlin Huey Burns (a former U.S. Newser), has a smart and detailed look at how Democratic candidates are dealing with the president. As she notes, the relationship is often not as simple as whether or not to campaign with him.
Fundraising, for example, needn’t mean an appearance, but something as simple as his name on an email solicitation. “When the president puts his name on those e-mails, it shatters the records that have been shattered,” Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee Chairman Steve Israel told Huey-Burns. “There’s no question that the president helps to animate our base, and we will be asking him to use all the tools in his toolbox and our toolbox to further encourage and inspire and motivate our base.”
Stay tuned.
