http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2015/03/10/amid-email-flap-hillary-clinton-gets-good-news
The Good News for Hillary Clinton
It's not all bad news for Hillary Clinton this week.
Amid the firestorm over her email, there are rays of sunshine contained in the new NBC-Wall Street Journal poll.
1. President Obama's approval is climbing.
Clinton allies have always maintained that Obama's political position would improve as the year went on, lifting Clinton's 2016 presidential boat with it. There's evidence that's beginning to come true.
[WATCH: 'Saturday Night Live' Spoofs Hillary Clinton]
Obama's national approval rating is at 46 percent in the poll, maintaining its highest point since September 2013. Six months ago, he was clinging to 40 percent approval. By summer, Clintonites forecast he'll be close to 50 percent – barring a cataclysmic foreign policy event.
Additionally, a plurality of voters (48 percent) say they're more optimistic about the nation's economy and (47 percent) credit Obama for that.
Any credit Obama gets is ultimately helpful to Clinton, who is expected to formalize her candidacy sometime next month.
2. Raising taxes on the wealthy is popular.
Buried in this survey is a jarring political revelation that counters conventional wisdom: Americans are interested in a candidate who will pledge to raise taxes – on the wealthy.
Given six options, more poll participants gravitated to a candidate who "supports raising taxes on the wealthy" than any other attribute. A full 31 percent found that hypothetical choice appealing. Fighting the Islamic State group with combat troops, supporting the Common Core State Standards and backing ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​same-sex marriage all trailed behind.
Clinton hasn't given any indication she'd run on a tax hike or even be open to it. But this research does give her the option of satisfying the left wing of her party with a policy proposition also embraced by a wider swath of Americans than originally thought.
She may be able to run a populist general election campaign after all.
RELATED
3. The Republican field is her friend.
It's a big, uncertain, volatile field of Republicans contesting for their party's torch.
Contrast that to the limp, weak field on the Democratic side and one can understand why Clinton isn't ready to sweat, even amid the current ruckus over her transparency shortcomings.
Despite their sharing dynastic names, the poll shows she's still seen as a bigger change agent than Jeb Bush.
And thought at one time to be a threat, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie appears to be in a tailspin. Fifty-seven percent of Republicans say they could not see themselves voting for Christie – these are members of his own party. Only Donald Trump captures a higher negative number.
Finally, Republican primary voters strongly, and perhaps stubbornly, indicate that a candidate embodying the right issues is more important than a candidate who can defeat the Democratic alternative. The GOP harbors this preference by a margin of 46​ percent to 19 percent.
That's evidence that Republicans are resolved to another fight over purity, rather than focusing on who can best topple Clinton.
