http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2015/02/26/chris-christies-cpac-flogging
Chris Christie’s CPAC Flogging
NATIONAL HARBOR, Md. – Not all CPAC speeches are rendered equal.
And neither are the moderators here tapped to pry answers out of the featured guests.
Sitting on stage at the Conservative Political Action Conference, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie received a painful assessment of his would-be presidential candidacy Thursday.
His antagonist was not a member of The New York Times’ editorial board or a liberal MSNBC talk show host, but conservative commentator Laura Ingraham, who peppered Christie with a barrage of uncomfortable queries for more than 20 minutes.
After swiftly disposing with niceties, Ingraham got right to the heart of Christie’s discernible decline within the Republican Party: “Look, this has been a rough couple of months for you in the media.”
RELATED
It didn’t stop there.
She probed his early support of Common Core, read aloud descriptions of him including the words “explosive, short-tempered and hothead” and cited his precipitous fall in early polling for the 2016 GOP nomination.
Christie handled the friendly fire with composure and still managed to serve up several quips and applause lines. But the question-and-answer session with Ingraham, which replaced the traditional scripted speech, was strikingly harsher than anything Christie’s counterparts faced. It was a flogging.
Carly Fiorina, the former Hewlett-Packard CEO who followed Christie on the CPAC stage, stuck with a speech and then was asked general questions about policy and the importance of being the sole potential female candidate in the primary.
After Texas Sen. Ted Cruz finished his prepared remarks, he fielded mostly friendly softballs from Fox News talk show host Sean Hannity.
“Why can’t this president admit that the Islamic State is, in fact, Islamic and radical Islam exists?” Hannity asked, setting up the senator to deliver the anticipated evisceration of President Barack Obama.
All potential 2016 presidential aspirants were offered the option of delivering a speech along with taking questions. Christie chose to bypass the controlled pitch from the lectern, which might’ve been a mistake given Ingraham’s unrelenting posture.
“Here I am,” the governor responded. “I’m still standing and I’m going to continue.”
But he spent the majority of his time in front of thousands of movement conservatives on defense.
Ingraham pointed out to the audience that Christie was an early supporter of Common Core education standards, which are now reviled by the right wing of the party.
As Christie explained his problems with the implementation of the program, Ingraham interrupted.
“Regrets? Regrets?” she asked.
“Sure, of course,” he sputtered.
“It’s not political regrets?” she pressed.
He replied that he’s charged a commission to provide him recommendations.
When Ingraham wondered if he had the temperament to hold the presidency, Christie defended his outbursts as straight-talking passion.
“Sometimes people need to be told to sit down and shut up,” he said, earning applause.
Ingraham didn’t gloss over Christie’s current position in polling, which has depreciated to single digits in early nominating states. She even name-checked the rivals who have hopped ahead of him.
“You’re low in a bunch of polls. How do you overcome that deficit? It’s a pretty big deficit,” Ingraham remarked.
Christie handled it deftly enough.
“Is the election next week?” he replied, spurring more applause. “I kind of remember in February 2007, it was going to be Rudy Giuliani against Hillary Clinton. That’s what the polls said then.”
No doubt, Christie does have time. It’s not inconceivable to foresee another comeback out of the sharp-tongued governor, especially if he showcases his truth-telling in this fall’s GOP debates.
Ingraham did provide him an opportunity to sketch out how he would position himself against the well-financed and well-connected Jeb Bush.
“If the elites in Washington who make backroom deals decide who the president is going to be, then he’s definitely the front-runner,” Christie said. “If the people of the United States decide to pick the next president of the United States and they want someone who looks them in the eye, connects with them and is one of them, I’ll do OK if I run.”
Christie joked that he gave up The New York Times for Lent. After Thursday, he may be adding Ingraham to his fast.
Follow all the potential candidates and their trips to early primary states on the U.S. News Presidential Campaign Tracker.
