http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2015/02/17/gop-donors-provide-cover-for-bush-on-immigration
GOP Donors Provide Cover for Bush on Immigration - US News
A trio of Republicans who hold sizable sway over the purse strings in the party issued an explicit warning to their aspiring field of presidential candidates Tuesday: Support immigration reform or forget about receiving the big checks necessary to finance a White House campaign.
[READ: Why April Will Trigger 2016 Presidential Campaign Announcements]
Three multimillionaire supporters of Mitt Romney’s 2012 campaign – health care CEO Mike Fernandez, fast-food CEO Andrew Puzder and private equity manager Spencer Zwick – said it was imperative that the GOP nominee for president in 2016 be a clear and unapologetic supporter of broad-based changes to the country’s immigration system that would allow the estimated 11 million immigrants in the country illegally to come out of the shadows.
“Across at least the larger donor base, there’s a very strong feeling that if you’re going to win this election, you’re going to have to change your position on immigration reform if you’re opposed to it,” Puzder said during a conference call organized by the bipartisan Partnership for a New American Economy. “I think donors want to support people who are going to win.”
The pronouncement amounted to an implicit endorsement of Jeb Bush’s approach to the issue, which has already been identified as arguably his most potent weakness in a Republican primary contest.
Forty-one percent of potential New Hampshire primary voters recently cited Bush’s support for allowing immigrants already in the U.S. illegally to remain in the country as a “deal killer.”
But the former Florida governor has given no indication he’s willing to alter his position in order to assuage the most conservative bent of the party. And these deep-pocketed donors appeared to be signaling that Bush would be rewarded for his courage in standing his ground
[ALSO: Jeb Bush Outlines Policy Vision]
When asked which potential candidates were most strongly identifying themselves with the immigration reform movement, Bush was cited twice.
“I’m personally biased towards Gov. Bush,” said Fernandez, who immigrated to Florida from Cuba in 1964.
“Certainly Gov. Bush has decided to lead on this issue,” added Zwick, the finance chairman of Romney’s 2012 campaign.
The donors stressed the economic and political benefits for Republicans who champion reform and dismissed out of hand the idea of expelling millions of immigrants who broke the law.
Zwick went as far as to call the issue “the path to winning a presidential campaign.”
The moneymen also emphasized that candidates shouldn’t be permitted to postpone formulating an opinion on how to tackle the immigration problem and that needless delay would only hamper the party’s fortunes down the road.
“As soon as somebody declares that they’re interested in running for president in 2016, if they want to be taken seriously in raising the money they need, in gathering the support that they need, they will need to clearly define where they are on this issue,” Zwick said.
[MORE: Blurred Lines: The Covert Funding of the 2016 Campaign]
Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., who once championed a bipartisan immigration reform bill but later renounced the approach, still appeared to be held in good graces.
Puzder said he’s been assured by Rubio personally that “he has not backed away from wanting immigration reform at all,” but that the senator wants to address the illegal immigration first.
“He’s one of the leaders of our party on this issue,” he said.
Inevitably, there will likely be more than one Republican candidate who embraces a hard-line position against any effort to grant citizenship or work permits to those already in the country illegally.
But some potential candidates, like Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker and Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., have remained vague about their approaches.
