http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2015/02/06/bush-walker-tops-in-new-hampshire
Bush, Walker Tops in New Hampshire
With Iowa’s penchant for selecting a conservative candidate in its GOP presidential caucuses, the Republican primary in New Hampshire becomes much more valuable to establishment contenders.
A new WMUR Granite State poll confirms the trend, with Jeb Bush sitting in the cockpit of the field and Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker right behind him.
[READ: Jeb Bush Outlines Economic Vision]
About one year from the first open primary of the 2016 race, Bush gets 17 percent to Walker’s 12 percent. Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie and Mike Huckabee each claim nine percent.
The results in the New Hampshire survey closely mirror the current rankings on The Chase -- the top four potential candidates most likely to ultimately attain their party’s nomination.
The survey shows that Walker remains mostly unknown -- 46 percent have no opinion -- and is largely benefiting from a downpour of positive media coverage following his performance at the Iowa Freedom Summit last month.
Paul, who has led previous surveys in the Granite State, boasts the best favorability rating with 53 percent. Bush claims the second best favorability with 47 percent, an indication that his instant name recognition is a weighty factor in his current position in the horse race.
[ALSO: Scott Walker's Great Expectations]
The poll began during the final week of January before Mitt Romney had taken his name out of consideration for a third presidential bid. The pollster reallocated Romney’s support to candidates who were the participants’ second choice.
The survey’s trajectory also demonstrates how far Christie and Paul have fallen in New Hampshire. In July 2013, Christie led this poll with 21 percent of the vote -- the biggest share any one candidate has received in the survey over the last two years. A year ago, in January 2014, it was Paul who was the leader with 16 percent.
Now, both men have dwindled to single digits.
It’s reflective of the rough week each has had. After Christie stirred a controversy in London with his answer advocating that vaccines be voluntary, he canceled further media appearances. On Thursday, it was revealed that his administration is the target of another federal investigation.
Paul also took fire for suggesting that vaccinations could be harmful to children and then berated a CNBC anchor on live television.

