http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2015/01/09/mitt-flips-gets-serious-about-2016-bid
Mitt Flips, Gets Serious About 2016 Bid
Mitt Romney has spent the past year denying interest in what would be a third presidential bid in 2016.
Apparently, he’s changed his mind.
The 67-year-old Romney told a gathering of more than two dozen donors in New York City Friday he still wanted to be president and is in fact considering another campaign, according to the Wall Street Journal, which broke the story.
“This is a guy who has it in his heart and soul that he could save the country. I don’t believe he will be able to sit on the sidelines -- knowing how qualified he is -- and just concede the presidency to Hillary Clinton or someone else,” Spencer Zwick, Romney’s former campaign finance director, told The Boston Globe.
The meeting was held in the office of Woody Johnson, the owner of the New York Jets. Romney reportedly told supporters that he is troubled by global affairs and long-term economic issues and relayed that he was convinced he should take another gander at the presidency.
[READ: Mitt Romney Holds Early Lead in Quinnipiac Poll]
Romney holds national polling leads in a hypothetical 2016 GOP primary and has enjoyed a sea of goodwill among Republicans since his 2012 defeat by the hands of President Barack Obama.
See Photos
But his path to the nomination this time would likely be more treacherous than in 2012, when he seized the mantle of the establishment candidate over a string of less-capable challengers. Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush gave strong signals about a campaign-in-the-making this week and New Jersey Gov. Christie also appears to be setting the wheels in motion, despite being nagged by ethics investigations at home. Former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, primed to embark on a southern book tour, also holds a considerable constituency in the early nominating states of Iowa and South Carolina, two states Romney lost during the 2012 primary.
But Romney’s presence in the field would scramble the calculations of almost all of his leading rivals.
New Hampshire state Sen. Jeb Bradley, a friend and ardent backer of Romney in 2012, told U.S. News Friday, he’d be eager to sign on to another campaign.
[ALSO: Mitt Romney's Third Act]
“A lot of people in New Hampshire like me, like Mitt a lot, so I think that would impact Jeb,” Bradley says. “If Mitt were to run, I’d sign on to Mitt immediately.”
Romney’s flip-flop may come back to haunt him. As recently as October, he praised Bush as “an excellent person” who “could be a terrific president.”
Speaking to Bloomberg Television, he said among the more than dozen people who he expected to see run, one would catch fire.
“I’m not running. I’m not planning on running,” Romney said at the time.
There is another would-be candidate who once took a future presidential run off the table and then changed her thinking. Her name is Hillary Clinton.
