http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2014/11/24/benghazi-isnt-going-away-for-hillary
Benghazi Isn't Going Away For Hillary - US News
At first glance, a rational observer might see a Republican-led House committee’s verdict on the attack on a U.S. diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya, as the resolving voice in the 2012 tragedy that took the lives of four Americans, including a U.S. ambassador.
The House Intelligence Committee found there “was no intelligence failure, no delay in sending a CIA rescue team, no missed opportunity for a military rescue, and no evidence the CIA was covertly shipping arms from Libya to Syria.”
[READ: Benghazi Theorists Find Gaping Holes in New House Report]
Some in the media seized on the report to declare that “Benghazi coverage will finally be put to rest.”
But politics is often irrational and more driven by perception than any series of facts. And it’s hard to imagine any report that would be powerful enough to halt Republicans from using the incident and its aftermath against Hillary Clinton in 2016.
After more than a year of drumbeat coverage on the issue in conservative media, for a GOP White House aspirant to just drop it because of a 37-page House report would be akin to political malpractice. Besides, there’s another investigation still underway, helmed by South Carolina GOP Rep. Trey Gowdy.
It’s true: This report will give Clinton a nice reference point to combat the coming attacks. Even Republicans investigated and found no systemic failure, she can say.
But that doesn’t mean it’s going away. Not by a long shot.
Take Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., who is floating his own name for a presidential run in 2016.
“Full of crap” is how he succinctly described the report’s findings on CNN this weekend.
As a respected foreign policy voice on the GOP side of the ledger, his comments give other 2016 contenders cover for continuing their own verbal broadsides on the controversy.
[ALSO: House Intel Panel Debunks Many Benghazi Theories]
Republicans see the Benghazi attack as an inarguable blemish on Clinton’s tenure as secretary of state. Her off-handed comment (“What difference – at this point – does it make?”) questioning the worthiness of identifying the reason for the attacks at the moment they occurred will be fodder for countless ads against her.
Additionally, the Benghazi episode is a critical piece in the larger narrative the GOP will attempt to construct around what they see as a feckless Barack Obama-Hillary Clinton foreign policy.
There isn’t a special committee or gray-bearded statesman who can change that.
The red-hot issue is bound to come up in the GOP primary and in the general election. It’s difficult to imagine Benghazi not being a pointed question Clinton has to address in debate over foreign policy in 2016.
If it’s not, the Republican nominee will be sure to make it one.
