http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2014/10/21/chris-christie-explains-why-governors-races-are-more-important-than-senate-races
Christie: It's the Governors' Races, Stupid
The country's obsessed with the clash for control of the U.S. Senate.
But Chris Christie argues it's the nation's gubernatorial races that are the real prize Republicans should keep their eye on in 2014.
[READ: Chris Christie's Lousy Iowa Numbers]
In a speech at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Washington on Tuesday, the New Jersey governor and head of the Republican Governors Association argued that gubernatorial victories in 2014 mean better policy and a stronger GOP bench for the big enchilada in 2016:
"My view is, things in Washington have proven to be so dysfunctional under this president that if you really want, from a business perspective, to get things done in the next two years, you better hope for more Republican governors in more states.”
See Photos

Christie said he considers 11 of the 36 races for governor toss-ups, meaning contests "that could go either way."
"Five of them on defense, six of them on offense," he said, recognizing the relatively equal state of play on the gubernatorial front.
Several of the races – including those in Wisconsin, Ohio and possibly even Michigan – may include future presidential prospects.
Christie told the business-oriented audience, "I am convinced the next president of the United States is going to be a governor."
[ALSO: Wisconsin's Amazing Race]
But apparently, even if he decides to embark on a White House run, he wouldn't mind some competition from his colleagues:
“If all you’re concerned about is 2016, let me suggest this to you: That if you have any chance of electing a Republican president, there’s a bunch of things we need to do. But the first is to have a good bench of Republican candidates … We need to have a big and broad bench of good and experienced Republican governors to select from in 2016."
And no matter who eventually becomes the nominee, Christie argued, it will be critical to have Republicans at the helm in battleground states known for producing razor-thin presidential outcomes.
“What would you rather have if you’re the Republican candidate and the nominee for president? Would you rather have Rick Scott in Florida overseeing the voting mechanism? Or Charlie Crist? Would you rather have Scott Walker in Wisconsin overseeing the voting mechanism or would you rather have Mary Burke? Who would you rather have in Ohio, John Kasich or Ed Fitzgerald?
“Fact is, if you’re just a pragmatist and don’t really care what happens in the states, you’re going to care about who is running those states in November of 2016 and what kind of political apparatus they set up and what kind of governmental apparatus they set up to ensure a full and fair election in 2016.”
