http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/washington-whispers/2015/03/05/last-call-hillary-clinton-may-be-emptying-her-inbox-but-questions-remain
Last Call: Hillary Clinton May Be Emptying Her Inbox, But Questions Remain
Attempting to extinguish yet another fire, Hillary Clinton has decided to show us her emails – the ones she wants us to see, anyway:
I want the public to see my email. I asked State to release them. They said they will review them for release as soon as possible.
And she still isn’t talking:
But because Hillary Clinton is Hillary Clinton, the news has goosed hard-core partisans on both ends of the political spectrum, and ignited a review over whether she broke a public records law that hasn’t kept pace with technology.
That makes it hard to see the scandal vanishing any time soon, even though some Republican presidential wanna-bes – including Scott Walker, Union Buster, who’s reportedly taken the same public-disclosure end-run as Clinton.
Though she’s tried to come clean, the woman Republicans love to hate – and progressives hate to love – will have to tough out at least one or two more ugly news cycles, punctuated by what’s likely to be some serious GOP hateration on the upcoming Sunday talk shows.
Madame Secretary’s tacit Twitter admission she’d been sitting on some official-business emails that hadn’t been handed over to government archivists – even though her people had sworn they had been – opened up just enough space for Republicans to credibly order up another round of Benghazi, even though the bartender should’ve cut them off about two years ago.
For many conservatives, the smoking gun of Benghazi will always exist in an email Hillary deleted. http://t.co/mNPP7fZMeV
Among Democrats, it’s nearly impossible to get Clinton’s former Capitol Hill colleagues to say anything on the matter; those who do are willing to give her the benefit of the doubt. Officially, the party’s progressive activists – the ones who make mooney-eyes at the screen whenever their dream candidate, Sen. Elizabeth Warren, drops another video on YouTube – is not even going there, for the sake of liberal unity.
“Thanks for asking,” Brian Stewart, MoveOn.org’s communications director wrote in an email, “but we're keeping our efforts re: the Democratic primary 100% positive while we're leading the Run Warren Run effort and don't have any comment on this.”
[READ: Hillary Clinton Private Email Scandal a Small Step Backward]
It’s a safe bet, however, that their private thinking aligns with The New Republic, a bastion of liberal thought, which savaged Clinton Wednesday for a series of “unforced errors” that feeds nearly every negative stereotype of her.
“The foundation shouldn’t have accepted donations from foreign countries so that no one could ever accuse Clinton of being influenced by that money. She should have stopped giving paid speeches a long time ago. And she should have used a government email address at the State Department. These should all be easy decisions to make, and yet Clinton got them all wrong. (And, in the case of the paid speeches, continues to get wrong.)
This should frighten Democrats. Who knows what other past mistakes might surface, or ones yet to come? It hasn’t taken much digging from journalists to find these stories. Republican opposition researchers are surely going into overdrive now that they smell blood in the water.
Though Clinton’s been out of the administration since shortly after President Barack Obama’s re-election in 2012 – and probably plans to distance herself from his administration if she decides to run – the scandal has given political junkies a sneak peek at what could be the future dynamic between them.
[ALSO: Hillary Clinton Ignores Email Firestorm at EMILY's List Event]
White House press secretary Josh Earnest said Wednesday that Clinton didn’t follow protocol, and a source told PBS Newshour that the administration’s legal office had no idea what their own secretary of state was up to, email-wise.
Then there’s the good-government watchdogs who are still waiting for an official explanation about why Clinton decided to opt out of what’s likely a perfectly good, highly secure – and publicly accessible, at least in theory – email system.
“Hillary Clinton turned over at least some of her email. I still question her use of personal email, the security of that system and what might be lost or not turned over,” Scott Amey, general counsel for Project On Government Oversight, told Whispers in an email interview. “The State Department should ensure that all government-related emails have been captured and make them publicly available, and possibly reopen FOIA cases which requested Clinton's records.”
Given the headlines – and reports that both Walker and Jeb Bush used home servers and private email to conduct state business behind closed doors – Clinton’s bad news could force change.
“I'm sure Clinton isn't alone,” Amey wrote, “but this is a wake-up call for the entire government to force compliance with the Federal Records Act and clear up any confusion about emails, text messages and other communications that are off the grid.”
Still, what should be the last word comes from Redacted, a blog of the National Security Archives. In an analytical post dated Wednesday, bloggers Lauren Harper and Nate Jones suggested Clinton may have flouted very clear law, failed the department she was empowered to lead and should be watched closely to determine if she’s really coming clean.
“The Secretary of State was responsible for all of the Department’s records,” they wrote. “Yet she failed to preserve even her own.”
