http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/washington-whispers/2015/02/12/three-minute-briefing-obama-leaves-something-for-his-successor-a-blank-check
Three-Minute Briefing: Obama Leaves Something for His Successor: a Blank Check
It's Thursday, the 43rd day of 2015 and the third month since President Barack Obama nominated Loretta Lynch to replace outgoing Attorney General Eric Holder, not a friend of Republicans in Congress. Her confirmation hearings in the Republican-dominated Senate ended two weeks ago, and it’s been four months since Holder said he’s leaving, yet Republicans aren’t going to vote on her nomination anytime soon, and Democrats accuse them of deliberately slow-walking it. By contrast, Obama’s defense secretary nominee, Ash Carter, practically blazed through the process: His bid will likely get a Senate vote today, less than two weeks after he got the thumbs-up from the Armed Services Committee. Probably just a coincidence. Here’s your Three-Minute Briefing, all the News You Can Use in 180 seconds or less, or your next one’s free:
Congress, May I? Now that Obama’s met their demand to formally ask permission for a war he’s already fighting against Islamic State group, Congress is likely to put the president’s Authorization for Use of Military Force on a fast track for solemn deliberation and intense debate by lawmakers on Capitol Hill – it’s war we’re talking about, after all, with troops in harm’s way and all. Then they’ll probably overwhelmingly vote to let the president continue. Because, checks and balances.
You're Welcome: As with most pieces of legislature that don’t involve naming a post office or perhaps designating National Haggis Day, the devil in Obama’s AUMF draft is in the details, including a “sunset” provision that voids the law after three years – a year after President Obama becomes Citizen Obama. It’s a tacit acknowledgment that he expects his successor to grapple with the global war on terror, an unfortunate legacy for a man who swept into office vowing to end “dumb wars.” Like the one that led to the conflict he’s currently fighting in Iraq.
[READ: Obama's Anti-ISIS AUMF: Another Blank Check?]
Throwback Thursday: Now that both the House and the Senate have passed bills approving construction of the Keystone XL pipeline, the Republican-led Congress has basically defied Obama’s threat to veto the bill when it eventually reaches his desk. It’s a safe bet that Obama will swat the bill into the cheap seats, yet GOP lawmakers (and at least one energy-state Democrat) who voted yes even though they don’t have enough votes to override a veto, don’t really have an answer to the “Then what?” question.
“No, You Shut Up!” Hasn’t been a great first month in charge for Capitol Hill Republicans, what with the looming veto of Keystone (see above), the looming shutdown of the Department of Homeland Security over immigration and the looming fight over the debt ceiling. And we haven’t even talked about the embarrassing face-plant on a centerpiece abortion bill, which happened with all the pro-lifers in town. But it’s nothing that a unified party leadership can’t overcome, right, House Speaker John Boehner and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell? Right? Uh-oh.
What Could Possibly Go Wrong? Exactly on cue, another divide emerged within the GOP: The hard-right faction of the party wants to let DHS shut down to send a message to the White House on Obama’s executive action on immigration – and let Democrats take the fall when DHS goes dark. But saner elements within the party think it’s a bad idea, considering that whole government shutdown thing last year didn’t exactly work out as planned.
White Man Jihad: The killing of three Muslim students at the University of North Carolina by a white man who lived nearby has opened an intense debate over whether their murders should be considered a hate crime. But the profile of their alleged killer – a lone white man with a grudge and a gun – has become a familiar one, writes The Nation’s Michelle Goldberg. She notes that with mass shootings in America largely perpetrated by the same type of person, white men are arguably a dangerous terrorist group.
Walker, College Dropout: Now that he’s making moves toward the 2016 presidential race, Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker is coming under increased scrutiny, and that includes his unlikely path to power – including a controversial collegiate student-government career (he violated several election rules in one campaign), his early exit from Marquette University (some critics say he was kicked out) and his precocious success as a politician. PolitiFact sorts through Walker’s past and sets the record straight, sort of.
Tweet of the Morning:
Evolution doesn't believe in Scott Walker :(
Sweet Homo(phobe) Alabama: After standing in the courthouse door to defy the Supreme Court and block gays from getting married, Alabama Chief Judge Roy Moore says he’s not a bigot; he just wants the liberals in Washington to respect his state’s rights. Where have we heard that before?:
But Obama says Moore is out of line and federal law will be enforced, though there’s no word when he’ll send down federal troops armed with fixed bayonets and wedding bouquets.
Irreplaceable You: As liberals continue to mourn “Daily Show” host Jon Stewart’s decision to bail out of the anchor’s chair this year, the inevitable speculation has started on who’s going to replace him, including comic Amy Schumer and current “This Week Tonight” host John Oliver, a “Daily Show” alum who sat in when Stewart took a hiatus to direct a movie. It’s not a long list of candidates, though, and whoever takes over will have some huge shoes to fill.
[ALSO: Being on 'The Daily Show' ]
Your Morning Chuckle:
Stat of the Day: Percentage of married U.S. households that are multiracial: 7. Of unmarried U.S. households: 14 (courtesy Harper’s Index).
Duly Noted: On this date in 1909, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People was founded. In 1914, groundbreaking took place for the Lincoln Memorial in Washington; on the same date a year later, workers laid the cornerstone. The redesigned 1959 Lincoln penny – with an image of the Lincoln Memorial replacing two ears of wheat on the reverse side – went into circulation. In 1973, Operation Homecoming began as the first release of American prisoners of war from the Vietnam conflict took place. In 1999, the Senate voted to acquit President Bill Clinton of perjury and obstruction of justice.
Happy Birthday, Aquarians: Baseball Hall-of-Fame sportscaster Joe Garagiola (89), NBA pioneer and Hall-of-Famer Bill Russell (81), author Judy Blume (77), former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak (73), blue-eyed soul singer Michael McDonald (63), talk show host Arsenio Hall (59), actor John Michael Higgins (52), actor Josh Brolin (47), singer Chynna Phillips (47), rock musician Jim Creeggan of Barenaked Ladies (45), actresses Sarah Lancaster and Christina Ricci (both 35), NFL quarterback Robert Griffin III (25).
