http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/washington-whispers/2015/01/27/last-call-searching-for-a-plan-edition
Last Call: Searching for a Plan Edition
Four Things You Should Know (And a Cartoon):
Bibi Blowback: If there ever was a situation which defined that overused term, it’s the reaction to House Speaker John Boehner’s decision to end-run the White House and invite Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to address Congress. Designed, apparently, to undermine White House talks to de-nuclearize Iran, Boehner’s back got blown by influential, parties who aren’t necessarily Friends of Obama or Fans of Iran – including muscular Israeli spy agency Mossad, the Anti-Defamation League, the pencil-necks at the New York Times editorial page and Fox News anchor Shepard Smith. Now, Senate Democrats have joined the party, if tardily, by announcing they won’t vote on a Republican-led Iran sanctions bill – for now. Heeding the critics, they’ve decided to give the fragile negotiations more time.
No Strategy? Big Problem: While we’re on the subject of international affairs, three former American military commanders confirmed what many have suspected: President Barack Obama and his national security team don’t have a plan for winning the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the president seems paralyzed by the crisis of Islamic State group and the Rubik’s Cube of a war going on in Syria. U.S. News’ Paul D. Shinkman reports that the commanders – retired Marine Gen. Jim Mattis, retired Navy Adm. William Fallon (who is also a former CentCom chief) and former Army Vice Chief of Staff Gen. John Keane – told the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee that the White House has to “come out from our reactive crouch and take a firm, strategic stance in defense of our values.” No word on exactly what those are, or against whom we should defend them.
Drawn Conclusion:
Double or Nothing: At their winter retreat in Palm Springs, California, the billionaire Koch brothers told their network of deep-pocketed donors that they estimate it will take nearly $1 billion to buy - um, finance a Republican presidential candidate in 2016. That’s roughly twice what the Kochs raised and spent on Mitt Romney in 2012, so this time they intend to get themselves and their contributor network involved early, then make it rain on a select primary candidate. Citizens United vs. FEC: the Supreme Court gift that keeps on giving – mostly to political consultants and ad agencies.
Spring For Caller ID This Time: It’s a safe wager that Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker could be that candidate, one the Kochs have dreamed of – or, at the very least, helped groom and mold during five years as Wisconsin’s governor. After a not-boring speech in Iowa last weekend, Walker was the talk of the GOP field, a fresh, union-fighting, big-government-cutting, spend-cutting politician with hands-on executive experience and a last name that isn’t Bush. He’s set up a 527 non-profit fundraising organization, another clear signal that he’s perhaps going to run for president. If he does, this golden oldie from 2011 is sure to hit the charts again.
