Bristol Palin Engaged to Medal of Honor Recipient Dakota Meyer
Bristol Palin and Medal of Honor recipient Sgt. Dakota Meyer are engaged, a Palin family friend confirmed.
The daughter of former vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin posted a photo with her new fiance on Instagram, writing "Truly the luckiest girl in the world, cannot wait to marry this man!!!!"

Truly the luckiest girl in the world, cannot wait to marry this man!!!! ??????
A photo posted by Bristol Palin (@bsmp2) on Mar 13, 2015 at 11:50pm PDT

Bristol, who was previously engaged to Levi Johnston--the father of her 6-year-old son Tripp--also posted a close-up shot of her new ring:

??????????????
A photo posted by Bristol Palin (@bsmp2) on Mar 14, 2015 at 12:50am PDT

Meyer served as a Marine in Iraq and Afghanistan. In 2011, he was awarded the Medal of Honor, becoming the third living Medal of Honor recipient since the Vietnam War.
Meyer wrote on Facebook today, "Coming back from Afghanistan there were days I thought I may never be happy again, and I know there's a lot of you out there who know that feeling. We only have one life to live and we have to do our best to live it the right way, and Bristol makes me a better man. I can't wait to spend the rest of my life with her and Tripp."


Delighted mom Sarah Palin posted this on Facebook: "Our families couldn’t be happier for Bristol and Dakota! We’re honored to welcome Dakota into our family. He’s an American hero and patriot whose service to our country – like all his fellow Medal of Honor recipients – has been above and beyond the call of duty; but even more important is he’s a good and kind man who loves Bristol and Tripp, and is loved by them. They met last year when he was in Alaska to film an episode of “Amazing America,” and even then it was noticed that just as we like to describe Bristol as “an old soul” wise beyond her years, the same also applies to Dakota. (A clear demonstration is the fact that he flew up North last week to ask both Todd and Bristol’s grandfather, Chuck, Sr., for her hand in marriage!)"

