Beyond McDonnell: 4 other political spouse scandals
Former Virginia governor Bob McDonnell and his wife, Maureen, in 2009.(Photo: Mark Wilson, Getty Images)
The indictment of former Virginia governor Bob McDonnell and his wife, Maureen, once again put the actions of a political spouse under a harsh spotlight. A look at some who became part of the scandal story:
Maureen McDonnell: Federal prosecutors allege the McDonnells schemed to use the governor's position to enrich themselves by obtaining loans, gifts and other things of value from Jonnie Williams Sr., then the CEO of Star Scientific. The indictment says Maureen McDonnell asked Williams to take her on a shopping trip to New York City in April 2011, where they spent thousands of dollars on designer dresses and accessories. She then arranged for Williams to be seated next to the governor at a fundraiser. Mrs. McDonnell also asked Williams for a $50,000 loan because the couple was having trouble paying for their daughter's wedding and offered to help the company, which makes dietary supplements. She also asked for a Rolex watch for her husband inscribed "71st governor of Virginia," and use of the executive's Ferrari while they stayed at Williams' vacation home, the court documents said. Bob McDonnell has said he has done nothing illegal.
STORY: Ex-Va. governor, wife indicted on gift charges
Hillary Rodham Clinton: A real estate deal and investments made by Bill and Hillary Clinton, when he was attorney general and governor of Arkansas, were scrutinized when he became president and became the sprawling scandal known as Whitewater. Questions were raised about Hillary Rodham Clinton's legal work for a failed savings and loan and a commodities investment. In 1994, the first lady held a news conference to explain her financial dealings and apologize for the way the White House answered questions about her role. The news conference is widely remembered because Clinton answered questions for more than an hour and for the pink outfit she wore that day.
First lady Hillary Rodham Clinton meets reporters in the State Dining Room of the White House in 1994. (Photo: Doug Mills, AP)
Sandi Jackson: The former Chicago City Council member and wife of ex-congressman Jesse Jackson Jr. was sentenced last year to one year in prison after pleading guilty to tax fraud. The charge against Sandi Jackson stemmed from an investigation into her husband, who admitted he used $750,000 in campaign funds to pay for luxury items, living expenses and trips. Both Jacksons resigned from their elected positions. Jesse Jackson Jr. is now serving two and a half years in a federal prison in North Carolina. Sandi Jackson will serve her term when her husband's is completed.
Joe Waldholtz: He was the husband of then-Rep. Enid Greene Waldholtz, the first Republican woman elected to Congress from Utah whose political career was derailed by his financial misdeeds. Joe Waldholtz, who managed his wife's 1994 campaign, was sentenced to 37 months in prison for bank and tax fraud, stemming from a check-kiting scheme. The couple divorced before he was sentenced. She has since remarried and is active again in Utah Republican politics.
John Zaccaro: Walter Mondale's selection of Geraldine Ferraro to be his running mate in 1984 was historic, as the New York congresswoman became the first woman nominated for vice president by a major political party. Ferraro's ground-breaking candidacy, however, also put husband John Zaccaro and his financial dealings in the spotlight. Questions were raised about Ferraro's finances and Zaccaro's real estate development deals. Zaccaro initially resisted releasing his tax returns (the couple filed separately), but relented after withering criticism. He pleaded guilty in January 1985 — after Mondale lost the presidential election to Ronald Reagan — to a misdemeanor charge of scheming to obtain financing for a Queens real estate deal, according to The New York Times. He paid a $1,000 fine. Ferraro died in 2011 of complications from blood cancer.
Joe Waldoltz, pictured here in 1996, is the ex-husband of former congresswoman Enid Greene, R-Utah. (Photo: Andy Starnes, AP)

