The House Member Who Joined 140 Caucuses - NationalJournal.com
These are boom times for congressional caucuses—the groups lawmakers form to support an industry or cause. The number of officially registered "congressional member organizations" and informal analogues has mushroomed in recent decades, from roughly 100 in the early 1990s to 350 in the mid-2000s to 739 in the last Congress. And, as of then, no one belonged to more of them than Rep. Loretta Sanchez.
The Democrat from Orange County, California—who was unaware of her status until I called her office earlier this month—was a member of 140 caucuses by the close of last session, according to the Congressional Yellow Book, the directory of lawmakers and staff that I used to perform my unofficial tally of affiliations. Sanchez's legislative portfolio is heavy on foreign affairs, and to some extent, her memberships reflect that: For example, she tells me, she belongs to the caucus on Romania "because it's a NATO ally." Her geopolitical pursuits also explain her association with the Kurdish-American Caucus, the Korea Caucus, and the Friends of Scotland Caucus (which she cochairs out of interest in the cache of nuclear weapons there). In addition, she goes to weekly meetings of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and the conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition. Other affiliations include the Wine Caucus (where members hear from the industry while tasting its Pinots and Cabernets), the Oral Health Caucus (dedicated to dental research, and, of course, flossing), and the Electromagnetic Pulse Caucus (which raises awareness about the risk of an infrastructure apocalypse). The Diabetes Caucus—the most popular of the groups on the Hill—counts Sanchez among its 316 members, as does the Women in the Military Caucus, which she founded. In general, if a colleague approaches her, Sanchez says, "I'm like, 'Oh, yeah. Yeah, put me on that caucus—it just meets once a year.' "
Some caucuses, such as the powerful Congressional Black Caucus, or the new House Freedom Caucus, unite members with similar politics. The vast majority, however, simply allow lawmakers to bond over their hobbies (see: Oregon Rep. Earl Blumenauer's Congressional Bike Caucus) or to engage in polite, usually bipartisan displays of solidarity. Caucus membership "is more symbolic than anything else," says Democratic Rep. John Yarmuth of Kentucky, cofounder of the Congressional Bourbon Caucus. The average group "is not a huge commitment," he says. "It's not really any commitment."
Membership can serve some useful functions. Republican Rep. Joe Wilson of South Carolina, by my count last session's caucus-joining runner-up to Sanchez—he was in 136—says he joined most of them because constituents asked him to. Agreeing is a way to serve them, he says—and it's also a handy signifier. It suggests that he knows enough about, say, steelworkers, or Italy, to address voters' concerns. For example, since he cochairs the Bulgaria Caucus, he says, people know that, "if they bring up an issue, I won't look at them funny and say, 'Sofia? Where's that?' "
But the lengthening of the caucus rosters may be, more than anything, a symptom of both Congress's current malaise and lawmakers' frustration with it. A recent Congressional Research Service report theorizes a link between the growth in the number of caucuses, the rise of the constant campaign, and the decline in legislative opportunities for rank-and-file members. Says former Rep. Connie Morella of Maryland, who now teaches at American University, "Frankly, I'd much rather see them introduce legislation. … That's not happening as much now, and I think that has something to do with the proliferation of caucuses." Rep. Raúl Grijalva, who cochairs the Progressive Caucus, paints a similar picture. The more active caucuses are places "where ideas that might be dismissed in committee or ignored on the floor suddenly have equal and respected standing," he says. "If it was the regular order of 20 years ago … when their ideas, in the regular order, were being looked at, taken seriously, and in some cases integrated into legislation, that would be ideal." But in the current ultra-partisan, all-but-gridlocked environment, caucus meetings may be the only place on the Hill that a lawmaker's ideas ever get truly heard.
For at least one member of Congress, the decision not to join any caucuses is its own kind of statement. Republican Rep. John Mica of Florida has been in office since 1993. When he was first elected, many caucuses were paid for by special interests (since 1995, the groups have been forbidden to take outside funding or money from congressional offices), and Mica campaigned on a pledge that he would never join one. He has kept to the promise, rule change notwithstanding.
Some caucuses still charge dues—which members pay with their own money—to support a staff, do research, and compete for policy clout. A seat on the Congressional Progressive Caucus costs $2,000, and the Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition charges between $850 and $2,000, according to BuzzFeed News. Members tend to be choosier about those groups: When the LGBT Equality Caucus announced it was imposing a $400 fee, nearly half of its 114 members dropped out.
Sanchez tells me the value of her many affiliations goes beyond symbolism. "We're generalists, as congresspeople," she says. "I'm so much more educated because I'm in those caucuses." She tells me she's planning a diplomatic visit through the Scotland caucus, and is researching immigration policy as a task-force cochair in the Hispanic Caucus. She doesn't plan to let opportunities like those slip through the cracks. Although she's back down to about 85 memberships now—her staff reviews and culls the list at the beginning of each Congress—that number is likely to grow. "I told my staff to get me a list of all my caucuses," she says. "I don't want to be missing any that are important. There's a Library of Congress Caucus that I don't think my staff has re-signed me up for, and I feel like I'm missing some dinners, and a great speakers series." She cheerily observes, "You could meet to death in D.C. if you wanted to."
This article appears in the March 14, 2015 edition of National Journal Magazine as Sign Her Up.

