http://www.nationaljournal.com/pictures-video/photos-inside-the-white-house-kitchen-20150316
Photos: Inside the White House Kitchen - NationalJournal.com

The White House kitchen in Washington, D.C. in 1910(Library of Congress/Wikimedia Commons)
View of SW Corner of the White House Kitchen. Documentation compiled after 1933.(Historic American Buildings Survey (HABS)/Wikimedia Commons)
Photo of kitchen area in the lower floors of the White House. From an album of photographs by Abbie Rowe of the White House, prior to the 1949 renovation.(National Park Service/Wikimedia Commons)
217 Kitchen; View to SE Corner - White House. Documentation compiled after 1933.(Historic American Buildings Survey (HABS)/Wikimedia Commons)
View to NW Corner - White House. Documentation compiled after 1933.(Historic American Buildings Survey (HABS)/Wikimedia Commons)
White House Executive Chef René Verdon holds a cake prepared for a surprise birthday party in honor of President John F. Kennedy given by members of the White House staff.(Cecil Stoughton. White House Photographs. John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum, Boston)
1962: White House Executive Chef René Verdon (third from left) and members of the White House kitchen staff pose with an assortment of cookies, arranged for a luncheon in honor of Alfons Gorbach, Chancellor of Austria. (Robert Knudsen. White House Photographs. John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum, Boston)
White House Chef, René Verdon (left), and Maître d'Hotel, Charles E. Ficklin, work in the Family Kitchen. (Robert Knudsen. White House Photographs. John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum, Boston)
Presidential Valet Manolo Sanchez (right) and another staff member preparing Richard Nixon's last lunch as president in 1974 (pineapple with cottage cheese) (Robert Knudsen/Nixon Library/White House Museum)
President Ford shows off his English Muffin toasting technique for the press in the White House residence kitchen. September 5, 1974. (Ford Library)
June 30, 1981: White House chefs, directed by Executive Chef Henry Haller, prepare for a state dinner honoring Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser. The chefs are working in the White House kitchen; the dinner occured in 1981, during the administration of Ronald Reagan.(White House Photo Office/Wikimedia Commons)
US First Lady Hillary Clinton poses next to a gingerbread house in the State Dining Room created by the White House chefs December at the White House in Washington, DC.(JOYCE NALTCHAYAN/AFP/Getty Images)
White House kitchen chef assistants prepare eggs for the annual White House Easter Egg Roll April 13, 2001 in Washington, DC. The event will be held on April 16 on the South Lawn of the White House.(Mark Wilson/Newsmakers)
White House kitchen chef assistants prepare eggs for the annual White House Easter Egg Roll April 13, 2001 in Washington, DC.(Mark Wilson/Newsmakers)
White House pastry Chef Roland Mesnier watches from the background as an unidentified chef (R) helps to decorate his 40-lb,4-1/2 foot Easter egg, in the kitchen of the White House 29 March 2002.(PAUL J.RICHARDS/AFP/Getty Images)
Chef Cristeta 'Cris' Comerford prepares a meal inside the White House kitchen July 17, 2002 in Washington, D.C. First lady Laura Bush announced August 14, 2005 that Comerford was named White House Executive Chef. Comerford is the first woman to serve in the job.(Tina Hager/White House via Getty Images)
First Lady Laura Bush (R) and White House Executive Chef Cristeta Comerford host a media preview of the 2005 holiday decorations and tasting event in the White House East Room November 30, 2005 in Washington, DC.(Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
A chef holds the desert, Sweet Serenity, as First Lady Laura Bush gives the press a preview of the dining room for the State Dinner in honor of Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's visit to the White House in Washington, DC, 29 June 2006.(JIM WATSON/AFP/Getty Images)
Guest pastery chef Bill Yosse of 'The Dressing Room' restaurant in Westport, Connecticut, cuts slices of cake in the State Dining Room during the press preview of the White House holiday decorations November 30, 2006 in Washington, DC.(Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
Mrs. Laura Bush poses Monday, Dec. 15, 2008, in the White House kitchen with the rabbis who supervised the kitchen's koshering for the annual Hanukkah party. From left are Rabbi Mendel Minkowitz, Rabbi Binyomin Steinmetz and Rabbi Levi Shemtov.(White House photo by Joyce N. Boghosian/Wikimedia Commons)
US First Lady Michelle Obama (L) watches as White House Chef Cristeta Comerford (2nd R) and White House Pastry Chef William Yosses (R) show deserts for the 2009 Governors Dinner February 22, 2009 in the kitchen of the White House in Washington, DC.(MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images)
Members of the White House kitchen staff prepare food for tonight during the Governors' dinner preview in the White House kitchen on February 22, 2009 in Washington, DC.(Kevin Dietsch-Pool/Getty Images)
Radishes and lettuce harvested from the White House Garden are prepared for the Congressional Spouses Luncheon May 17, 2009.(Samantha Appleton/Wikimedia Commons)
US First Lady Michelle Obama and some of the 36 fifth grade students work in the kitchen at the White House in Washington, DC, on June 16, 2009 to prepare a meal.(JEWEL SAMAD/AFP/Getty Images)
A miniature White House vegetable garden sits alongside the official White House gingerbread house, designed by White House Pastry Chef Bill Yosses, displayed in the State Dining Room of the White House during a press preview of holiday decorations in Washington, DC, on December 2, 2009.(SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images)
White House Pastry Chef Bill Yosses explains his design for the official White House gingerbread house displayed in the State Dining Room of the White House during a press preview of holiday decorations in Washington, DC, on December 2, 2009.(SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images)
A view inside a replica State Dining Room inside the official White House gingerbread house, designed by White House Pastry Chef Bill Yosses, displayed in the State Dining Room of the White House during a press preview of holiday decorations in Washington, DC, on December 2, 2009. The replica, made of white chocolate, features a miniature Bo(bottom-C), the Obama's dog, a miniature White House vegetable garden(L) and a view inside to a replica State Dining Room.(SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images)
Chef Jason Stoller Smith checks out a large wood stick with a salmon smoked over a fire pit at the Congressional Picnic on the South Lawn of the White House in Washington, DC June 8, 2010. Seven hundred pounds of salmon were cooked for the picnic in a traditional native American style.(YURI GRIPAS/AFP/Getty Images)
A member of the press takes a piece of seafood sample from White House chef Sam Kass (R) as members of the New Orleans Saints invite the media to taste seafood samples from Gulf of Mexico at the White House briefing room following a reception for the 2010 National Football League Super Bowl champions August 9, 2010 in Washington, DC.(Alex Wong/Getty Images)
A White House chef helps a child of active duty military personnel decorate a cookie during the press preview of the White House Christmas decorations in Washington, DC, November 29, 2011.(JIM WATSON/AFP/Getty Images)
White House chefs grill corn-on-the-cob on a barbeque for a Fourth of July celebration hosted by US President Barack Obama with US military members and their families at the White House in Washington, DC, July 4, 2012.(SAUL LOEB/AFP/GettyImages)
White House Executive Chef Cris Comerford holds the second course 'The Winter Garden Salad' while speaking during a preview for the upcoming State Dinner in honor of French President Francois Hollande in the State Dining Room of the White House on February 10, 2014 in Washington,DC(MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images)
White House Pastry Chef William Yosses explains the after-dinner sweets for Tuesday night's State Dinner for French President Francois Hollande at the White House February 10, 2014 in Washington, DC.(Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
First Lady Michelle Obama participates in a "Let's Move!" taping with Richard Sherman of the Seattle Seahawks in the White House Kitchen, May 21, 2014.(White House/Wikimedia Commons)
