Delhi elections: Promises made in manifesto which Aam Aadmi Party will have to keep
New Delhi: With Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) having registered a stunning victory in the Delhi Assembly elections, the party will now have to hit the ground running to fulfil the promises made in its manifesto. Many of the promises made by the party and its chief minister-designate Arvind Kejriwal are freebies.
Reacting to AAP's victory, Information and Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad gave a clear message that the BJP and Modi government at the Centre would keep a tab on AAP's assurances. "Kejriwal must deliver his promises," he said.
Dileep Pandey of AAP assured that the party will fulfil all its promises. "The mandate is overwhelming. We will work together for good governance. We will fulfill our promises," he said.
Kejriwal had quit the 49-day government on February 14, 2014 saying he did not have the numbers and could not get Jan Lokpal Bill passed as the BJP and Congress did not support it. AAP, with 28 seats, ruled with the support of Congress which had 8 seats. The BJP-led NDA had won 32 seats.
But having won the 2015 elections with brute majority, expectations of AAP and Kejriwal will also be high as far as fulfilling the promises are concerned. Some of the important promises made by AAP in its manifesto are as follows:
Passage of Delhi Jan Lok pal Bill
To legislate Swaraj Act
Full Statehood for Delhi
Electricity bills will be halved
CAG audit of discoms
Delhi to be made a solar city
Free 700 litres of water to every household having metered connection
500 new schools, 20 new colleges
Free Wi-Fi throughout Delhi
Drug-free city
E-rickshaw will be protected
Justice for victims of 1984 anti-Sikh riots
Fill 55,000 immediate vacancies in government departments
Gram sabhas to be empowered to make decisions regarding Delhi's villages
Extension of Lal Dora
Special reservations have been made for all senior citizens and youth of the nation
To establish a unified transport authority for a holistic transport policy
To provide better facilities to industrial areas
To provide loans to young entrepreneurs at low interest rates
To enforce an education loan guarantee scheme
To make Delhi into a manufacturing hub
Licences and permanent spaces for street vendors
Bring an end to raid and inspector raj

