http://www.huffingtonpost.com/dan-kovalik/open-letter-to-samantha-p_b_6028732.html
Open Letter to Samantha Power
Dear Ms. Power:
I recently read your statement decrying the UN General Assembly's election of Venezuela to the UN Security Council. This statement, so obviously laden with hypocrisy, necessitated this response.
You premise your opposition to Venezuela's ascendancy to the Security Council on your claim that "From ISIL and Ebola to Mali and the Central African Republic, the Security Council must meet its responsibilities by uniting to meet common threats." If these are the prerequisites for sitting on the Security Council, Venezuela has a much greater claim for this seat than the U.S., and this is so obvious that it hardly warrants pointing out. Let's take the Ebola issue first. As even The New York Times agrees, it is little Cuba (another country you decry) which is leading the fight against Ebola in Africa. Indeed, The New York Times describes Cuba as the "boldest contributor" to this effort and criticizes the U.S. for its diplomatic estrangement from Cuba.
I urge countries in the region and around the world to follow the lead of Cuba and Venezuela, who have set a commendable example with their rapid response in support of efforts to contain Ebola.
In terms of ISIL, or ISIS as some call it, Venezuela has no blame for that problem. Of course, that cannot be said of the U.S. which has been aiding Islamic extremists in the region for decades, from the Mujahideen in Afghanistan (which gave rise to Bin Laden and Al Qaida) to the very radical elements in Syria who have morphed into ISIL. And, of course, the U.S.'s multiple military forays into Iraq -- none of which you ever opposed, Ms. Power -- have also helped bring ISIS to prominence there. So again, on that score, Venezuela has a much greater claim to a Security Council seat than the U.S.
And what about Mali? Again, it is the U.S. which has helped destabilize Mali through the aerial bombardment of Libya, which brought chaos to both countries in the process. Of course, you personally supported the U.S.-led destruction of Libya so you should be painfully aware of the U.S.'s role in unleashing the anarchy which now haunts Libya and Mali. Venezuela, on the other hand, opposed the U.S.'s lawless assault on Libya, thereby showing again its right to be on the Security Council.
Indeed, while you state quite correctly that "[t]he UN Charter makes clear that candidates for membership on the Security Council should be contributors to the maintenance of international peace and security and support the other purposes of the UN, including promoting universal respect for human rights," the U.S. is unique in its undermining of all of these goals. It is the U.S. -- through its ceaseless wars in countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Yugoslovia, El Salvador, Guatemala, Nicaragua and Vietnam, to name but a few -- which has been the greatest force of unleashing chaos and undermining peace, security and human rights across the globe for the past six decades or so. As Noam Chomsky has recently opined -- citing an international poll in which the U.S. was ranked by far "the biggest threat to world peace today" -- the U.S. is indeed "a leading terrorist state."
Meanwhile, Venezuela has played a key role in brokering peace in Colombia, and has been a leader in uniting the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean into new and innovative economic and political formations (such as ALBA) which allow these countries to settle their disputes peacefully, and to confront mutual challenges, such as Ebola. It is indeed because of such productive leadership that, as you note in your statement, Venezuela ran unopposed by any of its Latin American neighbors for the Security Council seat.
What's more, as Chomsky again points out, Venezuela's Hugo Chavez led "the historic liberation of Latin America" from centuries-long subjugation by Spain and then the U.S. I would submit that it is Venezuela's leadership in that regard which in fact motivates your opposition to Venezuela's seat on the Security Council, and not any feigned concern about world peace or human rights.
