Report Confronts Conservative Claims on Solar, Wind
Stop us if you’ve heard this before: “Just say no.”
That’s the slogan of some conservative lawmakers who are urging states to resist a proposed federal rule limiting carbon emissions from existing power plants.
The measure, the Environmental Protection Agency's Clean Power Plan, would drive up electricity rates and undercut reliability, opponents allege.
[OIL BARON OF THE PINE BARRENS: Chris Christie Embraces Big Oil]
“The Obama administration’s so-called ‘clean power’ regulation seeks to shut down more of America’s power generation under the guise of protecting the climate,” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., wrote in a March 3 op-ed in the Lexington Herald-Leader. “States report that the regulation's mandates are not technologically achievable, cannot be implemented under rushed timelines and threaten both state economies and energy reliability for families.”
The arguments echo those by Americans for Prosperity, a political advocacy group backed by billionaire industrialists Charles and David Koch. Yet, just like that group’s claim that “there is great controversary [sic] as to whether global warming is actually happening,” it's a narrative that may be misguided, according to a report published this week.
The analysis by venture capital firm DBL Investors found that states with the highest proportion of electricity generation from renewable sources like solar and wind actually experienced cheaper-than-average retail prices compared to states with the smallest shares of green energy.
“Looking ahead, retail electricity prices and the entire electricity market are ripe for change,” DBL managing partner and report co-author Nancy Pfund said in a statement. “Reliance on renewables will continue to grow as their costs decline, and as states shift away from a fossil fuels focus and move towards a cleaner energy future.”
[JOHN KERRY: "Energy Policy:" the Solution to Climate Change]
It’s worth noting DBL is a firm that specifically backs clean energy companies. Yet its report – which compared the 10 states with the greatest share of renewable electricity generation to the 10 with the least – did find a marked difference between the two groups.
Notably, residential, commercial and industrial consumers in the top 10 renewable-electricity states saw their retail rates go up by 3.06 percent – 0.17 points less than the national average. The bottom states, by comparison, saw their average utility rates rise faster, by 3.74 percent.
[READ: At SXSW, Al Gore Calls for Price on Climate Change Denial]
Despite assessments that have led to an impression of "increasing renewable energy and skyrocketing electricity prices … the data in recent years lack such alarming trends," Pfund and co-author Anand Chhabra write in the report. “This analysis ... indicates that states leading on renewables have not experienced disproportionate electricity price growth, as some critics have implied."

