http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/data-mine/2015/03/06/jobs-jump-unemployment-dips-in-february-labor-report
Jobs Jump, Unemployment Dips in February
The U.S. economy added nearly 300,000 jobs in the month of February, exceeding expectations as unemployment ticked down to its lowest reading since May 2008.
A reported 295,000 jobs were added to the domestic labor force last month, though January’s 257,000 additions were revised down to 239,000, according to the Labor Department. A reported 59,000 jobs were added to the food and drinking services sector, while professional and business services gained 59,000 positions and construction added 29,000 jobs.
“For many years now, we’ve been mostly focused on the employer perspective. Are there job openings? Do employers want to hire? Whereas now what we’re seeing is there are tons of job openings. Employers definitely want to hire. But are the workers going to be there?” says Tara Sinclair, chief economist for job site Indeed. “I’m really looking forward to seeing more people enter the workforce in substantial numbers.”
[READ: 5 Things to Know About the Economy This Week]
There were 972,000 new entrants into the labor force in the month of February, down 61,000 from January. The civilian labor force, which is the aggregation of employed individuals and unemployed individuals who have actively sought work in the last four weeks, contracted by 178,000 people last month, while the number of people not in the labor force grew by 354,000.
The labor market contraction could have helped push unemployment to the 5.5 percent low. Unemployment is generally considered a lagging indicator, so its fluctuations often follow upticks or downturns in the overall economy.
“It could go up or down depending on whether we are also drawing more people back into the labor force,” Sinclair says of the unemployment rate. “And there’s a huge group of people out there who have the potential for participating in the labor force, but they’ve been out for some time now.”
A much more underwhelming ADP National Employment Report released Wednesday showed February job growth tick down to a nine-month low as the economy gained only 212,000 positions, which tempered economists' expectations heading into Friday, along with the extreme winter weather that has plagued much of the country.
[MORE: February Sales Show Big Month for Big Cars]
The ADP report is generally considered to be a less comprehensive look at employment trends and is usually released a few days before the Labor Department's official report is published.
“We’ve got terrible, terrible weather across much of the country. So whatever we get, you have to do more than seasonally adjust, because it’s an outlier season,” says Robert Shapiro, former undersecretary of commerce for economic affairs and chairman of the advisory firm Sonecon. “I don’t expect to see anything that would give me a clear indication of any shift in the underlying trends.”
Average hourly earnings expanded a modest 3 cents last month to $24.78, up 2 percent year over year, according to the Labor Department's monthly report. But the average hourly earnings of production and nonsupervisory employees was unchanged from January at $20.80. Hourly earnings actually fell in the construction, manufacturing, mining and logging and trade, transportation and utilities sectors.
That wages continue to remain flat is a major concern for the Federal Reserve as it considers boosting interest rates. But the thriving labor market could at some point force employers to boost wages to attract quality talent.
“I think the wage numbers are a little bit misleading on the downside, and I take them with a grain of salt, especially when we’re looking at the rate of change going forward,” says Brad McMillan, chief investment officer for Commonwealth Financial Network. “Employers are going to have to start bidding up wages pretty soon.”
[ALSO: Bailout Extension Doesn't Allay Fears that Greece, Eurozone Could Split]
The average workweek for private nonfarm employees was 34.6 hours in the month of February, unchanged for a fifth consecutive month. Workers in the manufacturing sector, whose industry was slammed this week by a nearly $1 billion drop in new orders for manufactured goods, worked an average of 41 hours a week.
Though the manufacturing sector has been plagued recently by low indicators and index readings, the industry in February still managed to add 8,000 jobs month over month.
“Over the longer term, we never expect manufacturing to come back to the role that it used to play in the U.S. economy. That’s a long-term decline that’s happened with manufacturing,” says Sinclair, though she notes that the Labor Department’s job reports have shown “some improvement in manufacturing over the last few months.”
The country’s manufacturing sector is subject to domestic and international trends in trade and demand. A separate Commerce Department report Friday showed the U.S. deficit shrank by $3.8 billion in January, down to $41.8 billion from December’s $45.6 billion. Exports were down $5.6 billion, while imports fell $9.4 billion month over month. But the deficit rose $2.9 billion, or 7.5 percent, year over year.
