Presence of Female Film Protagonists Declined in 2014, Study Says - US News
In her acceptance speech at last year's Golden Globe Awards, best actress in a drama winner Cate Blanchett praised the batch of films from 2013 being honored: “It’s been an extraordinary year, not only for cinema, but for roles and women in particular – the last 10 years really," she said.
[READ: 93 Percent of Top Films in 2014 Lacked a Female Director]
A new report, however, paints a more dismal picture for women in Hollywood.
Only 12 percent of protagonists in the 100 top-grossing domestic films released in 2014 were female, down from 15 percent the previous year. The percentage of female major characters (defined as characters who appear in more than one scene and are instrumental to the plot) was the same in 2014 as it was in 2013, as was the percentage of female characters with speaking roles (major and minor). Overall, the presence of women on the big screen has not shifted significantly since 2002, the year that Martha M. Lauzen, executive director of San Diego State University’s Center for the Study of Women in Television and Film, began conducting the annual “It's a Man's (Celluloid) World” study.
The situation worsens when female roles are broken down by race. The percentage of both black female and Latina female characters shrunk between 2013 and 2014, while the presence of Asian females ticked up slightly.
The study notes, however, that in 2014 “moviegoers were almost as likely to see an otherworldly female” – an alien character whose skin is purple or green, for example – “as they were to see a Latina or Asian female character.”
When women are represented in film, they often fall into old Hollywood age-and-occupation stereotypes. For instance, moviegoers were much more likely to see older men on screen (53 percent of male characters are 40 or older) last year than older women (30 percent). Additionally, a larger portion of male characters (16 percent) than female characters (5 percent) were depicted as leaders in their films, meaning characters who held leadership positions in a group or organization and whose example was followed by other characters. The study also offered a gender breakdown of certain film occupational leaders.
When at least one of the directors or writers of a film is a woman, the report found the likelihood of a protagonist or other character being female increased significantly. For instance, in films with at least one female writer or director, females accounted for 39 percent of protagonists, where in films where the writers and directors were exclusively male, females accounted for only 4 percent of protagonists.
But as a separate study released by the center last month showed, women continue to struggle to make a dent behind the scenes of the movie industry as well.

