Nearly 30 Percent of Americans Skimp on Meds to Save Money
Seniors are known to skip, delay or space out medications because of cost concerns, but new data show that working-age adults are actually twice as likely to engage in these methods.
In the National Health Interview Survey, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found that 8.5 percent of adults ages 18 to 64 surveyed didn't take medications the way their doctor had told them to, 5.3 percent reported they missed a dose on purpose, 5.6 percent took less than they were told to and 7.2 percent delayed filling a prescription
Prescription drugs count for a large part of people's health care expenses. The U.S. spent about $263 billion on them in 2012, with one-fifth of the total coming from out-of-pocket costs for consumers. To save money, some consumers – particularly those who do not have health insurance – engage in cost-saving measures, which can be detrimental to their health.
Not following doctor's orders on medication "may result in poorer health status and increased emergency room use and hospitalizations, compared with adults who follow their recommended pharmacotherapy," the report reads.
Other cost-saving strategies include asking providers for less-expensive medications or buying them abroad. Seniors were most likely to ask their doctors for a lower-priced drug, but were less likely to engage in other cost-cutting methods.
The brief noted that it is not known whether using alternatives to prescriptions or buying medications outside of the U.S. are associated with adverse health outcomes and higher health care costs.
The results also varied by level of insurance coverage. Uninsured, working adults were more likely than those with private health insurance or Medicaid to use these methods to save money. The poorest adults – those with incomes below 139 percent of the federal poverty level – were the most likely to not take medication as prescribed to save money.
"Belief that the recommended [medications are] needed, and an understanding of the recommended treatment, have been found to be lower among older adults who are economically vulnerable, compared with those with higher income," according to the brief.

