Most Students Don't Know Obama's College Ratings Proposal Exists
The Obama administration's college ratings proposal has riled the higher education community since it was announced in 2013, generating a backlash that has grabbed headlines for months. But most high school and college students are unaware the plan even exists, a new survey shows.
Fewer than 1 in 7 high school or college students — 11 percent and 13 percent, respectively — said they had heard of the administration's plan to rate colleges on measures of affordability, quality and access, the online textbook rental company Chegg found in a survey released Wednesday. Chegg surveyed 922 college students attending two-year and four-year schools and 446 high school students.
[READ: Obama Will Face Challenges With College Rating System]
When the students were then asked to what extent the ratings system would be valuable in their college selection process, more than half of high school students said they would use it as a resource. But some of the factors students said they would like to see included in the ratings are missing from the administration's current framework.
Most students, for example, said a metric of student satisfaction would be "very important" to their decision. Students also said they'd like to know about each school's ability to provide academic support, career guidance and to offer internships — measures that might not be covered in the administration's plan.
“If this proposal helps students better understand the real cost of their education, their likely earning power based on their school and major, as well as their ability to pay for it once they graduate, then it can help students and their families make better decisions," said Dan Rosensweig, CEO of Chegg, in a statement. "That said, the proposed metrics lack a student voice and set the bar too low to spur the needed structural changes in curricula, use of online technologies and institutional costs that would make college accessible to more students and improve lifetime earning potential."
[MORE: Obama Ratings System Could Hurt Tribal Colleges]
The Department of Education in December released a description of different types of metrics it is considering using to evaluate schools, such as the percentage of students who receive Pell Grants (an indicator of financial need), how much students from different income levels pay, average student loan debt and labor market success. The department's release of the ratings system has been delayed several times — the original goal was to release a draft several months ago. Still, department officials say they plan to have the system ready for the 2015-16 school year.
"We want to iterate on the ratings system several times before there are consequences," Ted Mitchell, undersecretary of education, told reporters in December, referring to the administration's plan to eventually tie the ratings to financial aid by 2018. "What the precise nature of the alignment is between the ratings and funding, we’ve not determined yet."
Public comment on the draft framework will be open through Feb. 17, 2015.

