Most Republican Voters Support Carbon Regs - US News
Action, action, they want action.
Even as Congressional Republicans fiercely oppose White House efforts to take on climate change and rein-in greenhouse gas emissions, most GOP voters actually support regulating carbon dioxide as a pollutant, according to a new analysis by the Yale Project on Climate Change Communications.
Nearly two-thirds of Republican voters also back granting tax rebates to people who buy solar panels or energy-efficient vehicles, the poll found.
“New Republican leaders in Congress have pledged to roll back the EPA’s proposed new regulations on coal-fired power plants – a key component of President Obama’s strategy to reduce global warming,” a statement on the results said. “However, Republican voters are actually split in their views about climate change.”
About 56 percent of Republicans – and 70 percent of total registered voters – said they supported regulating carbon dioxide. Another 64 percent of GOP voters – and three-quarters of registered voters – said they backed energy efficiency and solar tax rebates.
[READ: EPA to Complete 'Clean Power Plan' Carbon Rules by Summer]
Yale researchers calculated the results by combining six national surveys from the past three years. More than 5,513 registered voters were polled overall, 2,330 of whom said they were Republicans or Republican-leaning independents.
Last week, the Environmental Protection Agency announced it would finalize three new greenhouse gas standards for power plants this summer. They promise to be the first federal regulations to address carbon dioxide emissions from power plants – and they’ve encountered vigorous opposition from industry groups and conservative lawmakers, who have declared that the measures amount to a “war on coal.”
The EPA and environmental groups, by contrast, say the rules represent a critical step toward cutting U.S. emissions, inspiring nations around the world to reduce their own air pollution, and tackling global warming.

