U.N. Wants to End Poverty, Hunger by 2030
The United Nations set ambitious goals in 2000 to reduce global poverty and inequality by 2015, and while it successfully cut extreme poverty in half, the multinational group is conflicted about how much developing regions such as sub-Saharan Africa can improve by 2030.
The U.N. targets for progress were known as the Millennium Development Goals, which included cutting extreme poverty – which the group defined as people earning less than $1.25 per day – in half worldwide by 2015. The international community succeeded in that despite the global financial crisis of 2008 that damaged momentum toward reform. U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon wants to set a challenge of ending extreme poverty by 2030 now that economies have recovered in recent years.
[READ: Can the U.S. Forge a Relationship with South Sudan?]
The U.N. set eight development goals for 2015, but Ban’s December latest report calls for 17 new targets to encourage sustainable development, including reducing preventable deaths, ending hunger and achieving gender equality.
“With our globalized economy and sophisticated technology, we can decide to end the age-old ills of extreme poverty and hunger,” he said in his report. “Or we can continue to degrade our planet and allow intolerable inequalities to sow bitterness and despair.”
International aid workers recognized that political instability and the 2014 outbreak of Ebola in Africa could damage reform in the region, where 34 of the 48 least developed countries in the world are located.
“Even after societies recuperate, the potential for development remains impaired long after the crises are over, as human capital is depleted and institutions are weakened,” according to the authors of the U.N. progress report for Africa.
The percentage of people unable to feed themselves for an active life decreased from 23.6 percent between 1990 and 1992 to about 14.3 percent between 2011 and 2013, the U.N. reported earlier this year. If the final tally of the 2015 goals shows that rate of progress hold steady, the improvement would still be 1 percent shy of the U.N.’s target reduction, according to the report.
Hunger has declined in Africa and other developing regions during the past two decades, according to the U.N.’s recent progress report and data from the International Food Policy Research Institute, leaving some hope for eliminating starvation by 2030. An estimated 842 million people suffered from chronic hunger between 2011 and 2013, according to the U.N., which amounts to one in every eight people, many of whom are in developing nations.
[ALSO: Malaria Kills Fewer People, But Ebola Is a Threat to Progress]
The challenge of eliminating preventable deaths by 2030 is more complicated. The U.N.’s failure to meet its 2015 target for reducing child deaths is perhaps the worst sign of economic inequality in all of the Millennium Development Goals. Immunization efforts against diseases including measles have helped children become healthier, reducing the deaths of children under the age of 5 from about 12.6 million in 1990 to 6.6 million in 2012, the U.N. reports. This rate of progress was not enough to meet the 2015 goals.
“Regions such as Oceania, sub-Saharan Africa, Caucasus and Central Asia, and Southern Asia still fall short of the 2015 target,” the 2014 U.N. progress report states. “It will take until 2028 to reach [the child mortality reduction] globally at the current rate.”
The U.N. secretary-general cites technology as a great hope for eliminating poverty, but Africa is also falling behind other nations in Internet connectivity. Only 19 percent of people in Africa are using the Internet, compared with 74.8 percent of people in Europe and 65.5 percent in the Americas, according to the International Telecommunications Union, which is a United Nations agency. Member states of the U.N. will decide how much each of them will commit to pay for the implementation of the new 2030 development goals when they meet in July for a conference in Ethiopia.
“Young people will be the torchbearers of the next sustainable development agenda through 2030,” Ban said in his report. “We must ensure that this transition, while protecting the planet, leaves no one behind.”

