http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/data-mine/2014/12/15/blacks-and-whites-see-race-issues-differently
Blacks and Whites See Race Issues Differently - US News
With the unpunished deaths of Eric Garner and Michael Brown, race relations has been propelled to the front of political discussions once again. Protests have broken out across the U.S., with blacks and whites alike rushing into the streets and chanting slogans like "Black lives matter."
But perhaps unsurprisingly, polling data from Gallup show the perception of America's problems with race relations and opinions on potential solutions vary between blacks and whites. While whites have a more optimistic view of current race relations and generally don't feel government intervention is needed, blacks have seen less progress in recent years and think government intervention is one solution.
Immediately after the civil rights movement, blacks were more optimistic about race relations, believing a solution for conflict between blacks and whites eventually would be worked out and wouldn't be a problem for the U.S. forever. Whites, however, felt differently, and over the years following the civil rights era, black optimism declined, meeting white opinions in the 1990s. Since then, whites have become more optimistic about the future of race relations than blacks.
Blacks now rate the status of race relations lower than whites in multiple categories. They are less likely to be satisfied with society's treatment of blacks, to think relations between blacks and whites are good and to say they have the same opportunities in housing, education and jobs. While in some categories, differences are less pronounced – the percentage of blacks and whites saying civil rights improved in their lifetimes was in the 80s for both races, for example – other categories show large gaps. For the question, "Do blacks have as good a chance as whites in your community to get any kind of job for which they are qualified?" there was a 34-point gap between blacks and whites.
Blacks and whites also differ in their opinions on what the solutions should be to improving the social and economic position of blacks and other minority groups. Blacks are more likely to say the government should play a major role, while whites are more likely to say the government should play no role. One possible avenue for government intervention is new civil rights legislation. While 53 percent of blacks say new laws are needed to reduce discrimination, only 17 percent of whites think more laws are necessary.
Studies from the Pew Research Center have found similar differences in opinion between blacks and whites. Those differences have increased since 2009, when blacks' opinions peaked after the election of Barack Obama, the country's first black president. Then, 39 percent of blacks believed the situation for their race in the U.S. was better than it was five years earlier. In a 2013 survey, 26 percent said the same.
Again, perceptions of equality differ. Blacks say they are treated less fairly than whites in their jobs, with police, in the courts and during voting.
And as we reported last week, data back up opinions about the existence of racial disparities in the criminal justice system.
Wealth inequality between blacks and whites also has grown worse since the Great Recession. In 2013, the median net worth of white households was 12.9 times greater than the wealth of black households and 10.3 times greater than the wealth of Hispanic households.
