http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/Jamie-Stiehm/2014/11/18/new-bush-son-father-bio-is-all-about-brother-jeb
The Dynasty Strikes Back
Wake me when it’s over – it being the 2016 election, a contest which we just know will be bitterly fought to a draw.
To be true, reader, by it I also mean the Bush family; wake me when they are banished from the realm. For the dynasty’s staging a comeback with a new presidential history book, George W. Bush’s biography of his father George H.W. Bush. It’s called “41: A Portrait of My Father.” Due to be released this week, the collection of vignettes about the old Yankee is meant to play on our heartstrings. The best that can be said about the younger Bush's father is that he was a better president than his son.
To me, the Bush tribe represents the worst of both their worlds: New England and Texas. They have a case of Eastern educational elitism missing intellectual rigor, and they have Texas machismo without the big heart. The intensely competitive 41st president wrote thank-you notes and might be fun to hang out with in Kennebunkport, Maine – maybe. His career of frenetic ladder-climbing ended in the Oval Office, but at his core, he wanted to be president more than he actually wished to do anything new.
[MORE: Bush, Walker Climb the 2016 Rankings ]
May I remind the room that the elder Bush was devoid of ideas or what he himself called “the vision thing” here at home? He never uttered a single sentence in public that uplifted or inspired anyone. On foreign policy he was adept, a fine old-school guy. He deserves to be remembered among the mediocre presidents.
This new father-son portrait is warming up the folks for brother Jeb’s likely candidacy for president, an office that may have his name on it after governing Florida years ago. Jeb may be the best of the lot, more of a true moderate, but he has that Bush signature on his brotherly brow: winning at all costs. The Shakespearean drama of having his older brother’s reign decided in the swing state his younger brother governed felt surreal. It was a dark night in our history. As I've written previously, I picture the three Bush men as the three Macbeth witches stirring a boiling cauldron: “When shall we three meet again?/in Florida, Texas or in Maine?”
The hurly-burly never ends with the Bushes. They are like the Kennedys in that sense, but the Kennedys stood for so much more. Beneath the Bush family’s smug veneer is an obsession with winning at all costs. And if one loses, then avenging is in order.
[SEE: Political Cartoons on the Republican Party]
George W. Bush ran for president eight years after his father lost to Bill Clinton in 1992. He started another Gulf War to go after the tyrant that his father decided to leave alone in the end. Unlike his father, he lacked firm international support and evidence for his declaration of war. None of that mattered. He took the U.S. Army on a long, exhausting ride – and for what? For the way Iraq is today?
Well, the author of this latest biography is not losing any sleep over starting the longest, wrongest war in American history. His decision to start the Iraq war in 2003 was “correct,” the decider wrote.
The 43rd president is openly urging little brother Jeb to run for president. George is his sharp mother’s son, while the more even-keel Jeb is said to be his father’s favorite son. So maybe he wouldn’t be as bad as his brother, which is hardly anything to write home about.
Some band of brothers.
