The Season of Our D.C. Discontent
Here in Washington, we’ve seen better days. Don’t ask, we’ll tell. Who can keep a secret anymore? The latest fall fashions are many shades of black.
First of all, the president found it necessary to publicly blame the CIA for the rise of Islamic State group in Syria. That blind spot was a bit of a bummer because President Barack Obama felt obliged to start a new war that may bleed out the rest of his time with us.
“Jim Clapper [the director of national intelligence] has acknowledged that I think they underestimated what had been taking place in Syria,” Obama said in the operative moment in a CBS News "60 Minutes" interview.
[SEE: Cartoons on President Obama]
Wow, what a cool customer. Presidents rarely go public with intelligence failures. John F. Kennedy was furious about the Bay of Pigs fiasco, and he let that be known in the old school style, among friends in Georgetown.
Don’t get me wrong, three cheers for Obama for holding the CIA accountable. Now he should do the same to the Secret Service, another untouchable agency that has utterly failed its mission.
We are just now told in the newspapers that a man shot at the White House three years ago, shattered antique glass and nearly got away. The president and first lady were furious because one daughter was home and another was due home shortly. Such shoddy practices have clearly persisted because this month a man cleared the fence and ran into the White House, right through democracy’s front doors. Very nice.
[READ: Don't Wall Off the White House]
The Secret Service, like the CIA, cherishes its clandestine aura and shines it all the time. The rest of us went along with the strong, silent, sunglasses image. All felt well with the world, you know?
We thought they were nothing but the best. Now we’re like: Are you kidding me? No, another metal barrier in front of 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue is not the solution. That's not a nice way to say hello to the family from Wisconsin. The Secret Service should clean house.
As it is, the block in front of the White House is already a mess, cluttered with ugly bollards and an uneasy distance between the public and the president. Open, transparent sight lines eroded over the past 15 to 20 years.
The 9/11 terrorist attacks were not actually aimed at the White House – good thing for the Secret Service – but the calamity created a bunker-like mentality. This time there is an outcry, at least in the Washington Post , against a larger security apparatus.
[SEE: Political Cartoons]
The Supreme Court is coming back from its summer sojourn, and we are not happy about that. We think Obama, in his new frank signature style, should clamp down on the nonsense talk of the brilliant Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg resigning so he can appoint her successor. The clever men who have spread this canard all over the Internet think they know more than Ginsburg and Obama. They don’t.
Obama of course will have his hands full at home nominating a new attorney general to succeed the feisty Eric Holder. Another event to look forward to this fall: The confirmation hearing of that lucky guy or gal. It will be open season on Capitol Hill, whether or not the Republicans take over the Senate.
Speaking of which, that’s what passes for fun around here: Talking about Kansas and the handful of close Senate races. Kansas! Colorado! New Hampshire!
Yes, Kansas. Did you hear that old stick-in-the-mud, Republican Sen. Pat Roberts, might lose? It’s a little sad, but hey, we’re excited about Kansas.


