http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/Ken-Walshs-Washington/2015/02/03/obamas-budget-is-a-political-manifesto
Obama's Budget Is a Political Manifesto
President Barack Obama's new budget is a political manifesto, a personal statement, and the opening shot in a long-term confrontation with opposition Republicans in Congress. What it's not is a realistic attempt at finding a grand compromise.
It's pretty much what all presidential budgets have become in recent years – a partisan document designed to score points with supporters and court the general public. But presidential budgeting is not without pragmatic value because it tends to force all sides to take stands on major issues and clarifies a president's priorities.
In Obama's case, the $4 trillion budget that the White House released Monday showed the president moving solidly to the left. He is clearly trying to frame the next two years in terms of who is willing to spend money and devise programs to help the middle class and the poor – Obama says that's him and fellow Democrats – and who is on the side of big corporations and people with big fortunes – which Obama defines as the Republicans. His goal is to help Democrats keep the White House and re-take the Senate and possibly the House of Representatives.
[READ: Dems, GOP Fight for the Middle Class]
Obama said the economy has recovered enough from recession that it's time to "replace mindless austerity with smart investments that strengthen America," such as more spending for roads, bridges, education and job training, offering free community college and providing larger child-care subsidies.
He also declared his willingness to increase the deficit and the national debt, at least temporarily, and to increase taxes on the rich and corporations while imposing a new tax rate on foreign corporate profits..
There were some proposals that Republicans have supported in the past, such as expanding the earned income tax credit for the working poor, more defense spending and infrastructure improvements.
But Republicans declared the Obama budget dead on arrival. "The president says he wants to work with Congress, but everything he does indicates the opposite," Rep. Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., the House majority leader, told the New York Times. "His latest budget simply isn't a serious proposal."
[READ: Obama Budget's Slate of Democratic Priorities Divides Republicans]
What has upset many GOP legislators the most, it appears, is Obama's failure to move aggressively toward balancing the budget. This is the holy grail for conservatives, and Obama isn't trying to reach the objective. So the prospect in Washington is for more bitter battles over spending and taxes along the same partisan lines that have become so familiar in recent years.

