http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/Ken-Walshs-Washington/2015/01/05/obama-to-tout-the-economy
Obama To Tout the Economy
President Barack Obama and fellow Democrats plan to trumpet the ongoing good news about the economy throughout 2015, or as long as the good news lasts. It's likely that this optimistic and self-congratulatory theme will be a dominant one in Obama's State of the Union address January 20.
[ALSO: Obama Talks Sony, Economy, Cuba and Congress in Final 2014 Briefing]
Obama is scheduled to hit the road this week, visiting Michigan, Arizona and Tennessee to discuss the success of his economic policies. He will talk about how his actions helped generate a recovery in the auto industry and the housing market and helped to improve education and create jobs, White House officials say. He also plans to announce more programs that he says will help the middle class, although White House officials have declined to release the details up to now.
Senior party strategists tell me Obama has concluded that it's time for him to strenuously talk up the economy because it might make Americans feel better about the future and give their morale and confidence a boost. This could in turn improve Obama's job approval ratings, which are moving slowly upward but are still below 50 percent in most polls.
"Attitudes about the economy have gotten better," says Democratic pollster Geoff Garin, who urges Obama to take more credit for the upswing. "My point is, after six years of being president, he's got to have something to show for it on the most important issue for the country." And Garin argues that Obama's economic record is strong. "It's generally true that if you don't take the credit you don't get the credit," Garin says.
[2014: The U.S. Economy's Breakout Year]
The result will be a new, more aggressively upbeat Democratic strategy that will be coupled with an effort to bill Republicans as too negative. "For much of the past year, the Republican Party has been doing its best to scare people," says Debbie Wasserman Schultz, chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee and a congresswoman from Florida. "Its electoral strategy was dependent on people feeling that we are a nation in decline. The GOP knew that the only way it would do well was by making people feel bad about America."
But Wasserman Schultz, in a commentary emailed to reporters, added: "Our economy is stronger today than it has been in over a decade....The deficit has been cut by two thirds under President Obama, according to Treasury Department figures. More Americans are getting back to work. We are in the midst of the longest stretch of private sector job growth on record, with nearly 11 million jobs added over 5 straight months, according to the Council of Economic Advisers."
The problem for Obama and the Democrats is that while some economic measures are positive – such as the declining national unemployment rate and the boom in the stock market – millions of Americans don't feel that the economy is improving for them. The reasons include wage and wealth stagnation for the middle class and persistent underemployment that has caused many to take lower-paying jobs than the ones they used to have.
[MORE: Obama Warns GOP He Plans to Use Veto Pen in 2015]
House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, says, "While it's welcome news that more people found work...wages remain stubbornly flat while costs continue to rise, squeezing middle class families and putting the American Dream further out of reach." Boehner and other GOP leaders say their policies – ranging from less regulation to lower taxes and tax reform aimed at assisting the middle class – would create an even better economy than the one that is now unfolding.
In the midterm elections in November, the Republicans took control of the Senate and added to their majority in the House. Some Democrats say their party's setbacks were at least partly caused by a failure to show voters that Democratic economic policies were working.

