http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/Ken-Walshs-Washington/2014/12/03/obama-approaches-race-issue-cautiously
Obama Approaches Race Issue Cautiously
President Barack Obama is under increasing pressure to take more aggressive actions aimed at helping African Americans, especially in dealing with police, but so far he is adopting an incremental approach.
A case in point came at his meetings at the White House Monday with civil-rights leaders, law enforcement officers and others. The sessions were designed to be the president's response to the rioting and anger that followed a recent grand jury decision in Ferguson, Missouri not to indict a white police officer for killing an unarmed African American teenager last summer.
[READ: Who Uses Police Body Cameras and What Happens When They Do?]
Obama's message was to be patient and prudent. "In the two years I have remaining as president," he told reporters after the meetings, "I'm going to make sure that we follow through, not to solve every problem, not to tear down every barrier of mistrust that may exist, but to make things better."
Obama set up a task force to study police practices, and moved to reassess aspects of a federal program that provides military equipment to local law enforcement agencies. Obama appears to believe that the program leads to an unwise militarization of police and encourages overly aggressive tactics. Obama also proposed a three-year, $263 million plan to improve training of police and provide them with body cameras to better keep track of their response during confrontations.
This incremental approach disappointed many civil-rights activists, who expected more from the first African American president. "People want the president to be out front the same way he did with immigration, gay rights and women's rights," Leighton Watson, student body president at Howard University, told reporters after meeting with Obama. "They want him to make this an American issue."
See Photos
Separately, Jason Johnson, a political scientist at Hiram College who did not attend the White House meetings, told The Hill newspaper, "What he's failed to do consistently is express the anger and frustration of a very important constituency of his own to not just cultural misunderstandings, but to structural oppression." Johnson, an African American, added: "His failure to take a symbolic role initially is why there's so much anger now."
Others argue that Obama is making racial matters worse. "I think that things have gotten worse because of his unusual emphasis on race," Ben Carson, a potential 2016 Republican presidential candidate, said on the "Hugh Hewitt Show." Carson is African American and has a following among conservatives.
The latest Washington Post/ABC News poll finds that 52 percent of Americans disapprove of how Obama has handled the Ferguson episode and 39 percent approve.
[READ: Long Read: Run, Ben, Run]
Sixty-three percent of African Americans approve of his handling of Ferguson but an overwhelming 91 percent of blacks approve of Obama's job performance overall, another Post/ABC poll finds. African Americans are one of Obama's most loyal constituencies. This survey indicates that, even though some African American leaders are critical of Obama on the Ferguson issue, there has been no substantial backlash against him from the wider African American community.
Obama has consistently refused to adopt a "black agenda" for the nation. In an interview for my recent book "Family of Freedom: Presidents and African Americans in the White House," he said he wanted to be president of all Americans, not just African Americans.

