Environment Is New Battleground for Obama, GOP
The political battle over the environment is about to become a full-fledged war.
Republican leaders in Congress are set to fight imminent Environmental Protection Agency rules that would limit carbon emissions blamed for intensifying global warming.
[READ: Obama, Congress Resume Their Bickering]
Incoming Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., says the rules would decimate the coal industry across the country and shut down coal-fired power plants in his home state of Kentucky and elsewhere. Republicans want to stop funding for implementing these regulations, which McConnell and other conservatives call a "war on coal."
Obama is expected to veto such legislation if it is passed, and it's unlikely that there would be enough votes to override. But the result could be a prolonged confrontation that would embitter the Democrats and Republicans on Capitol Hill and jeopardize compromise on other issues.
Republicans are riding high after the midterm election in which they took over the Senate and added to their House majority.
See Photos
Republicans are also pushing legislation to approve the Keystone XL Pipeline to carry oil from Canada to refiners on the Gulf Coast of the United States. The State Department has been considering whether to endorse the pipeline for years, and GOP leaders say the Obama administration has waited too long to decide what to do. White House officials say the president would be inclined to veto such pro-Keystone legislation because he considers it premature.
Obama added to the harsh atmosphere this week, during a trip to Beijing, when he announced an environmental initiative in which the United States and China jointly committed to targets for limiting their carbon emissions during the next 20 years. Environmentalists said it was a step in the right direction on an urgent problem, but conservatives argued that the agreement would cost jobs in the United States and increase utility rates.
There will also be battles over immigration which could create even more hard feelings. Obama says he will overhaul immigration laws by executive action in the next few weeks, unless Congress passes legislation on the issue. Some GOP legislators want to pass a law stopping funding for executive orders designed to create new work permits for many undocumented workers and stopping funds for giving such workers legal residency. Obama is also considering the expansion of a policy to defer deportations of millions of immigrants who came to the United States as children or who are parents of U.S. citizens and of permanent legal residents.
Republican Sens. Ted Cruz of Texas and Mike Lee of Utah are linking the confirmation of Loretta Lynch, Obama's nominee for attorney general, to whether she rejects the legality of executive action to halt or defer deportations.

