http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/Ken-Walshs-Washington/2014/10/17/obama-ramps-up-ebola-response
Obama Ramps Up Ebola Response
President Barack Obama's potential callup of National Guard troops to help limit the Ebola epidemic in West Africa shows the extent of his new aggressiveness in fighting the deadly virus.
For the second consecutive day, Obama canceled an out-of-town trip to convene a meeting of his senior advisers regarding Ebola. Obama and his aides continued to map out a federal response to the outbreak in Texas, where two nurses contracted Ebola after caring for a Liberian man who died of the disease at a Dallas hospital.
[ALSO: Americans Growing Anxious About Ebola]
Obama had been scheduled to make an economic speech in Rhode Island and attend political fundraising events in New York City, but he scrapped them and instead met with his advisers for two hours Thursday evening. He also made phone calls to discuss his options with members of Congress and others.
"I continue to push and ask our experts whether we are doing what's adequate," Obama told reporters. "If they come back to me and say there are some additional things we can do, I assure you we will do it." For the first time, he said he was open to the possibility of naming an individual to coordinate the government's response to Ebola, which Republican legislators have repeatedly urged in the form of an "Ebola czar." "It may be appropriate for me to appoint an additional person," the president said.
Obama also said a major focus would continue to be helping the Ebola-stricken countries of Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone limit the spread of the disease, which has killed 4,500 people in the region. To that end, he signed an executive order giving the Defense Department the authority to call up National Guard or Reserve troops who could help fight the disease in West Africa, where it is most prevalent. Obama has already ordered 4,000 U.S. troops to West Africa to provide assistance.
Still, he tried to reassure Americans. The risks remain "extremely low for ordinary folks," he said.
See Photos
But legislators such as House Speaker John Boehner, R.-Ohio, are intensifying their calls for a travel ban on people trying to enter the United States from the stricken countries of West Africa. Obama and his aides say such a ban isn't necessary at this time, but the president indicated Thursday that he might be open to the idea at some point. "Currently," Obama said, he has decided that "a flat-out travel ban is not the way to go."
Obama has been widely criticized for a slow response to the Ebola outbreak. "It's one more question about whether President Obama is up to the task of handling something like this. Did he take it seriously enough, early enough?" asked Rep. Steve Scalise, R-La., a Republican leader in the House, during a congressional hearing Thursday.
Even Democrats are alarmed. Rep. Bruce Braley, D-Iowa, who is running for the Senate, said at the hearing that he is "greatly concerned...that the administration did not act fast enough in responding."

