http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2015/03/03/the-supreme-courts-fishy-decision
This Stinks Like Rotting Fish
The Supreme Court recently found that a Florida fisherman who had disposed of some undersized red grouper did not violate a provision of a federal statute concerned with the retention of business records and that prosecutors had perhaps been overzealous in pursuing the case.
If it were a Perry Mason Mystery it might have called “The Case of the Shredded Salmon.” As a matter of law, however, the five to four finding by the court in Yates v. United States (about which my bloleague Keith Rupp has more here) is a narrow thing. And, though I applaud the outcome – Yates was let off the hook – the court was wrong to find as it did.
The whole matter turned on the interpretation of the phrase “tangible object” – in this case the fish. The four of the five justices who sided with Yates were united in their belief that Congress could not possibly have meant fish when it wrote in the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley law intended to curtail fraud in the financial sector that it is a crime to, with the intent of obstructing an investigation, destroy or cover up “any record, document or tangible object.”
[SEE: Political Cartoons on Congress]
What is a victory for Yates is a defeat for those who advocate for the plain reading of the law, that statutes passed by Congress and signed by the president should be interpreted as meaning what they say. This, unfortunately, includes the stupid laws as well as the wise ones.
If judges and justices take it upon themselves to carve out exemptions from the bench as they did in Yates then they are legislating. They are saying, in this case at least, that fish are not a tangible object when they in fact are. Though we applaud the result, despite the fact that Yates was driven into bankruptcy, we should be very nervous about the process that and the legal reasoning that got him his decision.
Most people would agree there is a special place in the Hamilton Burger Gallery of Oafish Prosecutors for the feds who thought it would be a neat idea to use Sarbanes-Oxley to go after Yates after he ordered men on his crew to toss some apparently undersized suspect grouper overboard. They should probably be reassigned to pet court where they can seek maximum fines to their hearts content from dog and cat owners who let their charges run free on federal grass. That, however, is beside the point.
If we believe in the rule of law and the democratic process then we must trust that they way to change it is for people to lobby their legislators to do so. For that to happen, sometimes things that appear unjust or ridiculous might have to occur – for example sending a fisherman to prison because he destroyed some fish after a federal official told him not to. This is not a conclusion reached lightly but either the law means what it says or it doesn’t. And how can any of us be safe if the latter is true.
It would be nice on some level if courts could throw out convictions because the underlying indictments were dumb or were overreaching. Federal judges used to be able to take such things into account when passing sentence – but that’s another power (through the establishment of mandatory minimums) that the legislative branch has seen fit to take away from the judiciary. There is a right way to go about criminal and civil justice reform; the way the court did it in Yates is not it.
