No Love for Obama's Iran Deal
Americans like to talk. Our national conversation is often robust, forceful and opinionated. Sometimes it’s a little bit silly; sometimes it is deadly serious. And it is almost always interesting, especially when politics and the fate of the nation is the subject.
Lately though, things have gone awry. Right now, people seem focused on the question of whether or not President Barack Obama “loves America,” an idea put in everyone’s heads as the result of remarks made by former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani. To be blunt, it doesn’t really matter.
There’s plenty of anecdotal evidence giving weight to the idea that Obama’s view of America might not be one that is widely shared. It would be difficult to believe, for example, that the years he spent listening to the Rev. Jeremiah Wright deliver anti-American diatribes from the pulpit didn’t have some impact on his thinking. His wife’s observation about being really proud of her country “for the first time” back in the 2008 campaign is another hint that the Obama family passions for the nation run shallow.
[See: Editorial Cartoons on Barack Obama ]
This may inhibit his ability to establish connections with the electorate – and he was re-elected with fewer votes than he garnered in his initial run for the White House – but it is of little import how he feels. What matters is whether he can be counted on to act in ways that are in the best interests of the nation and its people.
Some of this, like his health care plan and his so-called stimulus spending, is a matter for legitimate debate. Other areas, like his conduct of U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East, are much less so. He has committed the United States to actions that run counter to America’s long-term national interests and to our national and economic security.
He has allowed, even abetted, the rise of forces and governments in the region allied with those who are using Islam to radicalize young men and women, turning them into terrorists and armed combatants engaged in violence, destruction and the outright murder of innocents. Moreover, he is shamelessly involved in a geopolitical dance with Iran that ends only when Tehran is welcomed back into the family of nations, a radically different family of nations than we now see, as a nuclear power capable of wiping out Israel or any other Middle Eastern state friendly to America in a matter of minutes.
[MORE: Political Cartoons on Iran]
Whether this has been the plan all along is a matter that we should be discussing, rather than whether or not Obama loves America. As far back as the 2008 campaign, he indicated he favored the opening of talks with the government in Tehran with no preconditions. How far those have come is still something of a secret, at least to most of the American people.
Standing in the way of all this is Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who has made it abundantly clear he will not allow his country to be sold down the river on his watch. The president’s way of dealing with that roadblock apparently is to replace him; thus, we have staffers who worked on previous Obama campaigns now helping Netanyahu’s opponents in the upcoming election.
We also have the specter of leading American Democrats turning their backs on Israel’s leader by urging U.S. House Speaker John Boehner to withdraw his invitation to the Israeli prime minister to address Congress. As they should have learned following the vote on Obamacare, you can have the president’s back, but it is a costly decision to do so. If you don’t believe that, just ask former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
[READ: False Choices on Iran]
Is a deal with Iran, which is probably the largest sponsor of terror groups anywhere on the globe, at the expense of the security of Israel, America’s strongest ally in the Middle East, worth it? What does the United States get out of that? And can we really trust the religious fanatics who actually run Iran to behave responsibly with nuclear weapons should they ever acquire the ability to manufacture them?
These are the questions we should be asking. This should be the topic of the national conversation about the president, not whether he loves his country. America is not perfect because human beings are not perfect. If people were angels, as James Madison said, then governments would not be necessary. We expect, rightfully, that all our leaders will have flaws of one sort or another. Whether those flaws affect their ability to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States and the nation they lead is another subject entirely, and one that it is never out of bounds to discuss.

