http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2015/01/07/mercedes-benz-moves-south-for-the-recovery
Red State Renaissance
Daimler AG’s decision to move the U.S. headquarters of its Mercedes-Benz division from Montvale, New Jersey – where it has been since 1972 – to a site in the suburbs outside Atlanta is yet another sign that the rules of the old economic order are being rewritten thanks to the demands of the new economy.
While once quite different from the states on either side of it New Jersey has become a haven for the same kind of tax, spend and regulate approach to government that hampers the business climate in places like New York, long considered the East Coast archetype of the liberal welfare state.
[SEE: 2014: The Year in Cartoons]
In the old order, elites in business, government and labor cooperated on schemes heavy on central planning to keep the economy humming, preserve peace between labor and management and keep jobs from moving. Increasingly, however, that approach no longer works. Mercedes is moving despite what the Wall Street Journal described as “a significant incentive package” offered by New Jersey to keep the company from relocating.
Simply put, the climate for business is better in Georgia – at least that’s what company officials concluded despite the Garden State’s offer of a special deal.
Mercedes-Benz is not the only auto company making the move south. Japanese powerhouse Toyota is relocating its U.S. corporate headquarters from high tax California to Plano, Texas. They’ve figured out – as other companies are – that the “red states” have more to offer industry in the 21st Century. Lower taxes (including a few states without any income tax whatsoever), less expensive home prices, lower property taxes, a less intrusive regulatory burden and cheaper energy are just a few of the benefits businesses can realize by making the big move.
[SEE: Political Cartoons on the Economy]
The states are laboratories for experiments in public policy. It’s the so-called red states that are leading the country right now, pulling it out of the long recession and long recovery. There’s more to do, and America as a whole has a long way to go before its back to where it was before the subprime mortgage market failure plunged the financial system into a crisis that brought the rest of the economy down with it. It should come as no surprise that the states that are doing best are generally the ones where the cost of doing business is the lowest. And that should be a cue to lawmakers in Washington that there’s plenty of room to lessen the cost of doing business across the country.
In order for the Obama recovery to match what happened in the Reagan years, the economy is going to have to grow by close to 10 percent per year on an annualized basis over the remainder of the president’s time in office. That’s not going to happen without some radical surgery on the tax code, a clear-cutting of the federal regulatory burden and a reduction in federal spending of at least one cent of every dollar spent. But even modest changes in that general direction will be of benefit to all.
