http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2014/12/30/why-the-laffer-curve-makes-sense-to-revisit-40-years-later
An Anniversary to Remember
As a practical matter the idea that tax rates have an impact on behavior and economic activity is about as newsworthy as the idea that water is wet. Today almost everyone – on the right and on the left – accepts the notion that people act differently when tax rates are high than they do when rates are low. It was not that long ago, however, that this was something of a revelation.
By the end of the 1970s the United States was experiencing a period of high interest rates and high unemployment, something the Keynesians who constituted the dominant strain of economic thinking said could and should never happen. Enter Arthur Laffer, a former chief economist for the White House Office of Management and Budget who explained to nearly anyone who would listen that the problem was actually the tax rates, which were choking off money that should have been available for savings and investment in order to feed the government beast.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on the Economy]
As Heritage Foundation Chief Economist Steve Moore recounted in a recent essay for the Washington Post, Laffer explained his theory over dinner one night to Donald Rumsfeld and Dick Cheney – at the time senior members of the Ford White House staff – and Wall Street Journal editorial writer Jude Wanniski, drawing a few lines on a cloth napkin.
Those lines, which showed how tax rates above a certain point would produce less revenue for the government, became known as “the Laffer Curve,” which this month turns 40.
Moore tells the story better than most anyone else can, being a friend to Laffer and an adviser on economic matters to just about everyone on the right that matters. The important point is that Laffer’s theory has been proven correct by both time and the long boom kicked off by the tax cuts President Ronald Reagan pushed through Congress in his first and second terms.
[SEE: 2014: The Year in Cartoons]
“Reagan’s tax policy, and the slaying of double-digit interest rates, helped launch one of the longest periods of prosperity in American history,” Moore wrote. “Between 1982 and 2000, the Dow Jones industrial average would surge to 11,000 from less than 800; the nation’s net worth would quadruple, to $44 trillion from $11 trillion; and the United States would produce nearly 40 million new jobs.”
It’s a historical example Washington policymakers ought to revisit – and soon. It’s already happening in the 14 states (both red and blue) which, according to the American Legislative Exchange Council, cut taxes of one form or another in 2014 in an effort to spark growth in their respective economies.
Back in the Reagan era there were a lot of people who claimed Laffer’s theory was just so much hot air. They pointed to the then-record deficits that were seemingly the result of every Reagan budget as the worst element of a flawed approach.
[READ: Heaven on Earth?]
As political theater for simpletons, it was a persuasive idea that many in the media bought into. It also neglected a number of key points critics deliberately overlooked including that government revenues increased continuously after the Reagan tax cuts went into effect; the economy grew at a rate disproportionately faster than the debt; America was spending money again on defense in order to win the Cold War (which it did); and, the Democrats in Congress made a mockery of the budget process and the law by passing middle-of-the-night continuing resolutions instead of the appropriations bills the law required.
The problem, if there was one, then as now, was spending – as President Barack Obama and his colleagues have amply demonstrated. Following John Maynard Keynes’ theory that it is the government’s job to stimulate the economy in times of slow or no growth through new spending, Obama has taken the national debt to a level unequaled by any post-World War II president. It is so high, in fact, that, depending on which statistics you rely, it equals or exceeds one year’s gross domestic product.
[READ: Labor Market Woes Remain]
Hopefully the 40th anniversary of the Laffer Curve is not something policymakers in Washington will overlook. The debate is already underway over the selection of a new chief for the Congressional Budget Office, with growth advocates arguing that whoever is selected ought to employ the use of dynamic models to determine the impact of tax and budget policy proposals. The left is already trying to portray this as an effort to cook the books using unorthodox or discredited analytical approaches when it’s really the only way to bring back the growth agenda. Using the shopworn flat-earth economic models common to CBO and other statist groups will only get us more of what we’ve had over the last six years – high unemployment and almost no growth in the economy with debt rising as high as the eye can see for years and years.
Reagan vs. Obama is about as pure a contrast between the two approaches as one can find in the post-World War II United States. “The Laffer model countered that the primary problem is rarely demand – after all, poor nations have plenty of demand – but rather the impediments, in the form of heavy taxes and regulatory burdens, to producing goods and services,” Moore wrote.
We now know, as a general rule, which approach worked better if the objective was to grow the private economy and which approach is best if the approach is to grow the government, and grow it at the expense of the private sector.
