http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2014/12/26/media-focus-on-jeb-bushs-finances-speaks-to-its-bias
No Way to Pick a President
The 2016 U.S. presidential contest is underway. First out of the GOP gate is former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, the son of one ex-president of the United States and the brother of another. Bush recently announced he will "actively explore" a White House bid.
Rather than consider the reasons why he might make a good president or engage in an in-depth analysis of the eight years he spent as chief executive of what has just recently become the nation’s third most populous state, the search is on to find things that might disqualify him for the job.
[SEE: 2014: The Year in Cartoons]
Exhibit A in this project is the piece that greeted readers of the Los Angeles Times on Friday, a Page 1 story on how Bush made whatever money he might have. Sprinkled liberally with references to 2012 GOP nominee Mitt Romney, whose considerable wealth proved to be something of a stumbling block in his quest for the presidency, the Times story lays out (at the 30,000-feet level) how the second son of America’s 41st chief executive amassed his personal fortune.
The story is full of references to business dealings with political supporters of his father, his financial relationship to several important Wall Street institutions and, horror of horrors, his connection to a healthcare company that might have profited from the much-hated (among GOP primary voters) Affordable Care Act.
Seriously? Is this any way to pick a president?
There are plenty of people, in politics and out, who made money off Obamacare. If the media were at least half as interested in how much MIT’s Jonathan Gruber made writing and promoting the Affordable Care Act draft and helping to design the exchanges that are its foundation as they appear to be in Bush’s finances, well, they might have a story. Instead the political circuit is busy looking for disqualifiers, items in Bush's background that would render him, in the voters’ minds, an unsuitable occupant of the government housing located in Washington at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on the Republican Party]
Bush, like many of the other Republicans considering a bid for the Oval Office next year, has much to commend him. It is fair, even appropriate to look into how he made his money but only if that same scrutiny is going to be applied to former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and her husband, Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, former Virginia Sen. Jim Webb and any other Democrat who might stick their toe into the pool of potential candidates.
The country is far worse off for the media’s failure to put President Barack Obama’s past under the microscope. His background was not explored with any degree of thoroughness – at least not until he was already elected with anything “unhelpful” airbrushed out of the narrative until niche media outlets forced the mainstream outlets to acknowledge questions had been raised.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on the Economy]
For myself I don’t much care how Bush earned a living after leaving the governorship. Hard work, after all, is still considered virtuous. What I care about, and, one hopes other political commentators care about as well, is what he achieved as governor of Florida for eight years and how those experiences might translate into his service as president.
The American voter does not need the media to manufacture issues that will act as an albatross around the neck of the eventual GOP nominee. There was enough of that in 2012, although truth be told, the most consequential stories of the last 30 years – as far as electing a president was concerned – were those the mainstream media all but refused to cover until everyone else had already heard about them. Some of the more entertaining ones included, just as a refresher course, the consequences of the Massachusetts prison furlough program backed to the hilt by then-Gov. Michael Dukakis, the allegations of serial adultery against then-Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton and former vice-presidential nominee and presidential candidate John Edwards' love affair with a so-called campaign worker that produced a “love child” while the former North Carolina senator’s wife was dying from cancer.
There are, of course, others – and almost all of them were “spiked” for as long as possible for the benefit of the Democrats by their cheerleaders at the major metropolitan newspapers and the television networks who follow their lead. Instead of getting candidates to make a pledge to eschew negative campaigning, how about a media pledge to ensure honest reporting?

