Protesting Is Not a Crime and Criminal Acts Aren't Protest
As unhappy as some people may be about the grand jury’s decision in the Michael Brown case, there is absolutely no excuse for those who have chosen to riot, to burn, to loot and to otherwise destroy businesses.
Given an enormous push from the media – and almost no prior sanction from national or state political officials – those who burned down two auto parts stores and other commercial establishments did so with all the zeal of college students lighting a bonfire before the big game. They weren’t articulating their rage; they were having fun.
There’s lots of blame to go around – most of it on the rioters themselves – but also on the various critics of the Ferguson, Missouri police department like Al Sharpton and others who’ve made a living off race-baiting (even if they haven’t paid taxes on that living) who have, through their overheated rhetoric, lit a rhetorical match and destroyed the department’s ability to respond to the fire.
[READ: Views You Can Use: Was Justice Served in Ferguson?]
It is no small matter that its critics have made the department reluctant to react with appropriate force. They are stuck in the unenviable position of trying to keep the peace while psychologically handicapped by the knowledge that any suspected lawbreaker they try to arrest could provoke a confrontation that, captured by the news media or on cell phone cameras, will be used to further propagandize the issue.
What should have happened is that, instead of calling out the National Guard, Missouri Democratic Gov. Jay Nixon should have called out the state police and had them on the frontlines of defense in Ferguson. The issue before the governor and other political leaders was not riot control. They confused themselves in the hype – it was crime control.
Everyone who helped burn down a store, flip a police vehicle or loot stores and leave with items they didn’t pay for is not an oppressed civil rights martyr; they are all criminals and should be treated as such.
What should be happening now is close scrutiny of all the footage with the intent of identifying the lawbreakers (again, not rioters but lawbreakers). They should be identified, arrested, given all the rights entitled to them under due process and, if found guilty, punished to the full extent of the law. That is the only way to deal with situations like these. Being nice, being a negotiator, being an appeaser doesn’t work. The president of St. Louis University found this out after negotiating last month with non-student protesters who occupied parts of campus. Instead of having them arrested or kicked off campus, he cut a deal with them. They left – only to come back after the grand jury’s decision was announced.
[READ: Twitter Reactions to the Ferguson Grand Jury Decision]
There are people who have, as is their constitutionally protected right, marched in protest of the news that police officer Darren Wilson will not be indicted. And there have been those who have called for Attorney General Eric Holder to bring action under federal statute, which is looser and much more disconnected from the common law principles embedded in state law that protect many of us from government overreach. These people, however, should be considered separately from those destroying parts of one small American city and trying to cause riots and other disturbances in larger ones.
In a way it’s ironic the same day Ferguson was in flames President Barack Obama presented posthumous Presidential Medals of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian honor, to Andrew Goodman, James Cheney and Michael ‘Mickey’ Schwerner, three civil rights workers murdered by the Ku Klux Klan while registering black voters in Mississippi in 1964. They would probably been horrified by the violence in Missouri while some of the doyens of the modern civil rights movement seem to be backhandedly and silently nodding in approval. In a lot of ways we’ve made progress since the 1960s but, in a few crucial ways, we seem regrettably to be sliding backwards.

