An Ambitious Plan for a GOP Congress
With the November election just days away – and a consensus building that the Republicans will come out of it in control of both the U.S. House of Representatives and the United States Senate – the question people are starting to ask is “What next?”
In fact, the election may turn out to be something of a national GOP landslide, with a few pundits predicting the Republicans will reach an historic number of seats in state legislatures across the country, leading to control of more chambers and states that at any time since the 1920s. With that kind of representation, the GOP becomes the national majority party and, after a fashion, reduces President Barack Obama to a sort of irrelevance, at least in terms of his ability to set the agenda for the nation.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on 2014 Congressional Elections]
What the GOP would do with that kind of control has not been fully fleshed out, but there are clues. Several weeks ago, Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus outlined a set of issue opportunities for the party, items on which legislators at the state and national level can focus to address the problems every American family faces each and every day.
Priebus’ outline, however, is merely advisory. As chairman of the national party but not an elected official, there is little he can do to set the agenda for future legislative action; his function lies more in the area of establishing a sound platform on which Republicans of all stripes and in all parts of the country can run.
One person who does have the ability to set a legislative agenda, though, is House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio. A member of the U.S. House since 1990 and a former full committee chairman, he has a long history of moving legislation and ideas that have had genuine impact on the country’s direction.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on the Republican Party]
It was not that long ago that Boehner released a five-point plan for the future, though without the brass bands and parades that accompanied 1994’s Contract with America. His priorities – Fix Our Tax Code, Solve Our Spending Problem, Reform Our Legal System, Rein In Our Regulatory System, and Improve Our Education System – are the rubric under which future policy debates will be framed.
This week, Boehner’s office released a version of the five points that goes into greater detail that will serve as a useful guide to Congress-watchers moving forward. Boehner's points are below:
[SEE: Political Cartoons on Congress]
“If we were to do these five things, along with this energy boom that’s underway, we could reset the economic foundation in America for the next two or three generations and beyond. This is a big deal that requires real leadership,” Boehner said in a statement. The items on the agenda are ambitious but, frankly, are long overdue.

