http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2014/09/09/reid-udall-launch-new-assault-on-citizens-united-and-the-first-amendment
A New Assault on the First Amendment
Nevada Democratic Sen. Harry Reid is anything but these days.
As Senate majority leader, he gets to set the agenda for the chamber – when he wants something to come to the floor, he pretty much gets his way, especially now that he and his partisan cohorts have effectively abolished the filibuster.
What’s on his mind these days? Well, he might be thinking about the still-sagging economy, which is killing jobs and real estate values in his home state. Then there’s the expanding war in the Middle East, with the Islamic State torturing, raping and beheading Christians and threatening to establish a new "caliphate." And there’s the continuing crisis on the U.S.-Mexican border. All these issues are crying out for leadership, for someone to put forward a strategy to address them.
[SEE: Political Cartoons]
But what Reid has foremost on his mind is to gut the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution like a fish and serve it up, filleted and de-boned to his buddies in organized labor, the environmental movement and other so-called progressives who have recently discovered how inconvenient a level playing field is to their political wants and desires.
It is not only alarming but sickening that 45 of his partisan colleagues would sign on to a proposal put forward by New Mexico Sen. Tom Udall that so fundamentally changes our ability to enjoy our basic rights of free speech. (The proposal would amend the Constitution to overturn Citizens United, as well as McCutcheon v. FEC., giving Congress new abilities to regulate campaign fundraising and spending.)
Reid, Udall and their compatriots liked the days after Nixon when labor unions and organized liberals could say anything they could afford to pay for, while individual Americans and business interests were gagged thanks to restrictive campaign finance laws. The progressives liked the fact that things were uneven because it gave them an edge in communicating messages to the American people, much like the liberal news monopoly in the days of Walter Cronkite skewed the flow of information.
[SEE: Cartoons on the Democratic Party]
That’s all changing, in part because of the advent of cable news, because the Internet has spread like a fire on a dry Texas prairie, and also because the U.S. Supreme Court, in its decision in the Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission case, put the right on roughly equal financial footing with the left in respect to its ability to bring money to bear on political campaigns.
See for yourself. In an email sent to members and interested parties on Tuesday, MoveOn.org announced that “the fight” was winnable.
“One big reason to keep fighting this fight right now is that while some really important things have happened during Obama's presidency – like the health care law – it's become pretty clear that the fundamental change we all want will be impossible until we end the stranglehold that big corporations and lobbyists have on our democracy,” MoveOn wrote. Nothing about the unions, who are still the biggest spenders in politics, and nothing about foreign energy billionaire Tom Steyer or the culture-changing George Soros. No, the enemy is good old U.S. corporations that employ American workers, produce American products and keep this country strong and vital.
[MORE: Cartoons about Congress]
As for lobbyists, well, what do the people at MoveOn.org think they are anyway? They and the 8 million members they boast – which, incidentally, makes them bigger than the National Rifle Association, the National Federation of Independent Business or the American Farm Bureau Federation – are just another special interest group flying under a flag of independence to push a partisan, ideological agenda.
These so-called progressives – they’re really regressives, by the way – are trying to roll back the Citizens United decision while imposing even more restrictions on individual and group speech, depending on whose mouth is open, whose fingers are on the keyboard and whose money is paying for it all. They are so desperate to rig the system that they are willing to eviscerate the U.S. Constitution – the basis of our ability to freely exercise the liberty with which we are endowed by our common Creator – to get their way. If they had the capacity to feel it, they would be ashamed.
