http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/robert-schlesinger/2014/02/26/new-ad-targets-republican-senator-kirk-on-unemployment-insurance-extension
New Ad Targets Republican Senator Kirk on Unemployment Insurance Extension - US News
Senate Democrats have been trying to find a carrot sufficient to induce one more Republican to support an extension of emergency federal long-term unemployment benefits, expressing optimism this week that they can reach a deal. Now one of the big outside progressive groups working on this issue is bringing the stick to the effort with a new TV ad targeting one of the Republican lawmakers.
Americans United for Change is set to run a brutal ad saying that Illinois Sen. Mark Kirk is “personally responsible” for Illinoisans losing their unemployment benefits and “can get them restored.” The logic is simple: One more Republican vote is needed to pass an extension and Kirk can be that vote.
The ad goes on to blast Kirk for promising to vote for the bill if certain conditions were met (finding a pay-for) but then backing off when they were. "Call Senator Kirk," the announcer exhorts. "Tell him you will remember who cost your family this critical economic lifeline when you were laid off and searching for work, but still couldn't find a job."
[Check out editorial cartoons about the GOP.]
The ad is set to run on MSNBC (of course) and CNN in Chicago. Americans United for Change is the same group that a few weeks back released polls aimed at pressuring Kirk and Ohio Republican Sen. Rob Portman by showing that voters in their two states overwhelmingly support an extension.
Those two and Indiana Sen. Dan Coats have become the focus of Democratic efforts. “The Democratic leadership regards Kirk as more likely than Coats to vote yes. Their hopes of winning over Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio) – once a top target – have waned, although lawmakers and advocates have not crossed him off the list of potential supporters,” the Huffington Post’s Sam Stein and Arthur Delaney reported earlier this week. The group may run similar ads aimed at Coats and Portman.
[See political cartoons about the economy.]
Democrats have dropped hopes of getting a three-month extension as a bridge to buy time to negotiate a yearlong extension, since that time frame backdated to the end of December (when the benefits ended) would almost immediately expire. Instead, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid is now just pushing a six-month, $13 billion extension.
Of course, even if Democrats can sway Kirk, the GOP House remains unlikely to act on the proposal. But that's a fight for another day.
