http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2015/02/27/jeb-bush-stands-his-ground-at-cpac
Amid Doubters, Bush Stands His Ground at CPAC
NATIONAL HARBOR, Md. – The biggest boos thundered before he even took the stage.
When Fox News personality Sean Hannity surveyed the audience at the Conservative Political Action Conference Friday on their favorite 2016 Republican presidential prospects, the mention of Jeb Bush provoked a deafening note of disapproval.
But later, when he took the dais alongside Hannity before a packed audience that included throngs of his own supporters, Bush didn’t bow to the pressure of the stormy environment. Over a mix of shrieks, jeers and catcalls about Common Core, the former Florida governor stood his ground on the issues that have created a chasm between himself and the hard-line GOP base.
On immigration, Bush defended his call for a path to legal status for the estimated 11 million immigrants in the country illegally, while flat-out dismissing a mass deportation effort.
In a similar vein, he didn’t shy away from his support for providing in-state tuition to the children of parents in the U.S. illegally.
“In-state tuition was passed this year by one of the most conservative state legislatures" and signed by a conservative governor, he said, referring to his home state of Florida.
RELATED
Bush also refuted the notion that the Common Core education standards amount to a federal takeover, a prevalent charge leveled by conservatives who loathe the program.
“The federal government has no role in the creation of standards, either directly or indirectly,” he said. “The federal government has no role in the creation of the curriculum.”
As the 25-minute Q&A session rolled along, Bush’s supporters were able to audibly drown out his vocal opponents, even if they couldn’t change their minds.
But the fact that Bush drew a decidedly mixed reception at the most ideologically driven national conservative gala of the year can be counted as a victory for him. It also highlighted a respectable organization effort by his growing team.
Fritz Brogan, a husky former advance man for President George W. Bush, roamed the hallway outside the ballroom with a red "Jeb For Governor" baseball cap. He was spotted doling out floor credentials to Bush supporters from a stuffed envelope. A younger college Republican was seen doing the same thing.
Heading into the annual conservative confab, Bush’s brain trust knew the traditional audience would be hostile to their boss. So they attempted to change the composition of the audience by bringing in their own supporters from Washington. On some front, the play succeeded. And Bush largely stayed true to his promise not to injure his chances for the general election by kowtowing to primary voters.
[READ: Chris Christie’s CPAC Flogging]
Bush was also given considerable leeway by Hannity to tout his eight-year gubernatorial tenure, which included an ambitious record of tax cuts, a significant expansion of school choice and the elimination of affirmative action.
In a statement, Democrats leapt on Bush for his call to undo President Barack Obama’s plan to shield some immigrants from deportation. The Democratic National Committee noted that nine in 10 Latino voters support the move.
Meanwhile, in the hallway after the speech, a group of men dressed in Revolutionary War-era costumes raised their hats and chanted, “No More Bushes.”
But overall, Bush largely achieved his goal of emerging from CPAC unscathed and without making a strategic error. If he can muster a middle-place finish in the conference’s straw poll – the results of which will be announced Saturday evening – it will place a cherry on top of his survival.
Bush may not have changed the opinions of those within the GOP who yearn for a purebred conservative, but he indicated he’s not writing his detractors off yet, either.
