http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2015/01/26/rubio-cruz-spar-with-paul-over-iran-sanctions
Rubio, Cruz Spar With Paul Over Iran Sanctions
It was over just a week ago that Republicans agreed their first 2016 presidential primary debate wouldn’t come until August.
But on Sunday night, three GOP senators who have eyes on the White House sparred gingerly about American foreign policy, particularly on how the U.S. should go about confronting Iran.
Sitting in the middle seat on a stage at the Freedom Partners summit in California, Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., split with Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., and Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, on the implementation of tougher sanctions against Iran.
[READ: Ted Cruz, Scott Walker Excite Activists at Summit in Iowa]
Paul, who stressed that war with the country should be the last option, said that leveling new sanctions against Iran would only push it away from the negotiating table over its nuclear program and potentially set up a dire confrontation.
“I’m a big fan of trying to exert and trying the diplomatic option as long as we can. If it fails, I will vote to resume sanctions and I would vote to have new sanctions,” he said.
“But if you do it in the middle of negotiations, you’re ruining it.”
Rubio strongly disagreed with that approach, painting Iran as a unique global foe that can’t be trusted. He pointed out that it harbors a Supreme Leader whose goal is to impose radical Islam around the globe.
“I am a little cautious, perhaps skeptical of negotiating with someone who has openly said he wants to force all of us to either be like him or die,” Rubio said.
That response carried the room. Rubio’s hard-line won the applause of the wealthy business leaders aligned with David and Charles Koch, the libertarian-minded duo whose group put on the weekend conference. The gathering was rooted in an economic theme, and questions about taxes and government regulation dominated the first half of a question-and-answer panel with the senators that was moderated by ABC News reporter Jonathan Karl.
[ALSO: The Endgame for Iran Nuclear Talks]
But it was the topic of foreign policy that spurred the first significant fissure of the night between the three. The sustained, but respectful back and forth between the trio could also be noted as the first debate of the 2016 cycle.
Whereas Paul spoke about the need to “give diplomacy a chance,” Rubio and Cruz articulated a much more hawkish posture.
Prefacing his Iran position as one that offers a “very different perspective” than Paul, Cruz said the pace of the Obama administration’s slow rolling negotiations with Iran over its ability to construct a nuclear weapon has been unacceptable.
“They’ve been negotiating for two years. This is the worst negotiation in the history of mankind,” said Cruz, who also earned thunderclaps.
See Photos
Rubio agreed that Iran has largely used the negotiations as a stalling tactic that’s only resulted in looser restrictions regarding its uranium enrichment.
“We can’t live with a nuclear Iran and you can’t contain them,” he said, triggering more applause.
Paul never heard audible affirmation for his position, but he did raise an uncomfortable question to his colleagues about the lack of options at their disposal.
[READ: Rubio's Position on Cuba May Clash With Florida Voters]
“What are we going to do? Are you ready to send ground troops into Iran? Are you ready to bomb them? Are you ready to send 100,000 troops?,” he asked.
Cruz and Rubio appeared to indicate that the chance for constructive diplomacy had expired. Cruz touted legislation to level even stronger economic sanctions against the regime and Rubio said no military option could be taken off the table.
It marked an unmistakable ideological split with Paul, who maintained, “I do think diplomacy is better than war and we should give diplomacy a chance.”
