http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2014/12/10/liberals-rattle-the-2016-cage-in-push-for-elizabeth-warren
If They Build It, Will She Run?
Liberal activists are making abundantly clear they will not be taken for granted by Hillary Clinton in the 2016 presidential race, even if they lack an apparent alternative to her.
[READ: Ready For Warren Seeks 100,000 Signatures]
At least three progressive groups are now aggressively pursuing plans to pressure Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., to dive into the next White House race, despite her repeated claims that she’s not interested.
MoveOn.org, which boasts 8 million members nationwide, voted overwhelmingly this week to pursue a campaign to draft Warren, a first-term senator. Eighty-one percent of its members chose to move forward with the $1 million effort, according to results released Wednesday.
The multipronged initiative will include placing staffers in early presidential primary states, running television ads and producing a website urging voters to draft Warren.
Democracy for America, an offshoot of Howard Dean’s 2004 presidential campaign, released a poll after the midterm elections showing Warren to be its members’ runaway 2016 favorite. The group also has signed on to MoveOn.org’s effort.
Ready For Warren, a third entity, has announced a goal of acquiring 100,000 signatures by Presidents Day in support of a Warren bid. By Wednesday, the group already had collected more than 14,000 online.
Warren consistently has said she’s not running for president. But these assorted groups aren’t taking no for an answer, and believe Warren recently has allowed for some wiggle room on the question.
Anna Galland, executive director of MoveOn.org Civic Action, points to an interview Warren granted for a fall issue of People magazine, in which she slightly altered her tune about a presidential campaign.
[ALSO: Elizabeth Warren Liberals Eye Jim Webb to Pressure Hillary Clinton]
"I don't think so," Warren said about a possible run. But, she added, "If there's any lesson I've learned in the last five years, it's don't be so sure about what lies ahead. There are amazing doors that could open."
“She has said, ‘I’m not running, I’m not running.’ That is currently true, until it’s not,” Galland says. “If she sees the passion and the size of the groundswell that’s really hers for the taking, she’ll get in and run.”
Galland says her group provided a courtesy heads-up to Warren’s team about their plan over the weekend, directly conveying their seriousness about the endeavor.
“This is not a vanity project,” she says. “It is earnestly trying to move her into the race.”
Whether Warren can be convinced to change her mind may be one of the most important questions looming over the start of the 2016 contest.
A proven fundraiser with a large grass-roots following and growing national name identification, Warren poses the single greatest threat to Clinton’s front-running status for the Democratic nomination; in most primary polls, she has overtaken Vice President Joe Biden for the second slot behind Clinton. She also is a rousing speaker and is associated with a much more populist-oriented economic agenda than Clinton.
Former President Bill Clinton viewed Warren as such an acute threat to his wife that he declined to campaign for Warren during her 2012 Senate bid.
“Hillary Clinton is beatable, especially if she’s running against a star, a true progressive and a woman: check, check, check,” says Cenk Uygur, host of The Young Turks, an online show with a strong following among young progressives. “If Warren doesn’t run, then the most center-right candidate the Democrats have had in a long time will likely be the candidate.”
That Warren – someone who has repeatedly conveyed disinterest in a national run – is the top choice of liberals indicates the perceived weakness of the rest of the field pondering Democratic campaigns, one that includes former Sen. Jim Webb of Virginia, Maryland Gov. Martin O’Malley and independent Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont.
[MORE: Warren Slams Obama for Wall Street-to-White House Pipeline]
Sanders is seen as unelectable, O’Malley lacks pizazz and Webb, who has formally opened an exploratory committee, is somewhat of an enigma to the left.
Despite these fervent efforts focused on Warren, those close to her still hold great doubts that the public pressure will alter her thinking.
“The thing you don’t know about Elizabeth is she’s about policy, she’s not really about power,” says a member of the Democracy Alliance, a group comprised of 150 of the most wealthy liberal donors in the country. But, the member adds on the condition of anonymity, “There’s going to be a real push on the left, at a minimum, to push Hillary more to the left. Plenty on the left don’t trust Hillary.”
Warren has been reluctant to fully and pre-emptively embrace Clinton’s candidacy-in-waiting, partly because she wants to see how far Clinton gravitates toward her agenda of addressing economic inequality and reining in the influence of Wall Street. She may not yearn to run herself, but that doesn’t mean she’s not interested in helping shape the issues that will drive the Oval Office campaign.
And crafting the terms of the debate could be ultimately what progressives are left with if Warren continues to rebuff their calls.
“Whether she jumps in or not, we’re planning on joining this effort because we know that a strong, vocal, grass-roots movement focused on encouraging Warren to get in pushes her core issues – chiefly, the fight against income inequality – to the very center of the 2016 presidential debate,” says Neil Sroka, a spokesman for Democracy for America.
But others still contend elevating an issue simply isn’t enough, and that if Warren genuinely cares about policy, she’ll pursue the office that allows her to have the most effect on it.
“It’s almost egotistical not to run. You’re saying you care more about your own personal vanity – whether your ego will be bruised if you don’t win or people will see you as brash – than you care about policy,” Uygur says. “If you really care about how things are run, then go where you can make the most difference.”
