http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/11/07/world-reacts-to-obama-win_n_2087970.html
World Celebrates Obama's Win (PHOTOS)
People around the world closely followed the 2012 U.S. presidential election results Tuesday night, waiting to see who would occupy the White House for the next four years. As the news that Barack Obama would be re-elected began to spread, there were celebrations everywhere from Africa to Indonesia to India, and many other points across the globe.
World leaders reacted with general enthusiasm for Obama's victory, as did most of the world media.
Take a look at some of the best election night reaction photos from around the world.
Indonesian school children erupt into cheers on hearing the announcement that U.S. President Barack Obama had won the U.S. presidential election at SDN 01 Menteng elementary school to which Obama once attended in Jakarta, Indonesia, Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012. Obama attended the school when he was a child while living in Indonesia. (AP Photo)
Cyclists ride on a beach passing by a sand sculpture congratulating U.S. president Barack Obama for a second term in office in Puri, India, Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012. Obama captured a second White House term, blunting a mighty challenge by Republican Mitt Romney as Americans voted for a leader they knew over a wealthy businessman they did not. (AP Photo/Biswaranjan Rout)
Sarah Obama, step-grandmother of President Barack Obama, waves her walking cane towards supporters in celebration before speaking to the media about her reaction to Obama's re-election in the U.S. presidential election in the garden of her house in the village of Kogelo, western Kenya, Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012. (AP Photo/Ben Curtis)
Students hold a poster of U.S. President Barack Obama as they watch the US election vote counting at SDN 01 Menteng elementary school where Obama studied in Jakarta, Indonesia, Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012. Obama attended the school when he was a child while living in the Southeast Asian nation. (AP Photo)
An American supporter of President Barack Obama holds a flag and sports a T-shirt which has a portrait of Obama and a phrase that reads 'Bangalore has hope' during a screening of U.S. elections coverage organized at a restaurant over breakfast in Bangalore, India, Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012. Obama captured a second White House term, blunting a mighty challenge by Republican Mitt Romney as Americans voted for a leader they knew over a wealthy businessman they did not. (AP Photo/Aijaz Rahi)
U.S citizens celebrate U.S. presidential election results in Mumbai, India, Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012. President Barack Obama captured a second White House term, blunting a mighty challenge by Republican Mitt Romney as Americans voted for a leader they knew over a wealthy businessman they did not. (AP Photo/Rafiq Maqbool)
A Kenyan supporter of U.S. President Barack Obama cheers as he watches a broadcast showing that Obama has won the U.S. presidential election for a second term, Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012. Obama won re-election Tuesday night despite a fierce challenge from Republican Mitt Romney, prevailing in the face of a weak economy and high unemployment that encumbered his first term and crimped the middle class dreams of millions. (AP Photo/Sayyuid Azim)
A U.S. citizen reacts as he watches the live telecast of U.S. presidential election results in Mumbai, India, Wednesday, Nov 7, 2012. Barack Obama captured a second White House term, blunting a mighty challenge by Republican Mitt Romney as Americans voted for a leader they knew over a wealthy businessman they did not. (AP Photo/Rafiq Maqbool)
An empty champagne bottle and glasses are left after President Barack Obama's victory was announced Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012, in Shanghai, China. Obama won re-election Tuesday night despite a fierce challenge from Republican Mitt Romney, prevailing in the face of a weak economy and high unemployment that encumbered his first term and crimped the middle class dreams of millions. (AP Photo/Eugene Hoshiko)
Villagers ride motorcycles and wave branches to celebrate Obama's re-election, in the village of Kogelo, home to Sarah Obama the step-grandmother of President Barack Obama, in western Kenya Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012. (AP Photo/Ben Curtis)
U.S. embassy staff, Iraqi guests, and ambassadors listen to the speech of U.S. re-elected President Barack Obama at the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad, Iraq, Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012. (AP Photo/Khalid Mohammed, Pool)
A man reads a Spanish newspaper with the smiling portrait of U.S. President Barack Obama on his front page, in Pamplona northern Spain, Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012. It is announced early Wednesday that Obama has been re-elected to be U.S. President for next four years. (AP Photo/Alvaro Barrientos)
Indian Muslim students pose for photographs near cutouts of U.S. President Barack Obama, background right, and Republican candidate Mitt Romney during an event organized by the U.S. Embassy in Chennai, India, Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012. Obama captured a second White House term, blunting a mighty challenge by Romney as Americans voted for a leader they knew over a wealthy businessman they did not. (AP Photo/Arun Sankar K.)
Indian students react to results on television networks during an event organized by the U.S. embassy at the landmark Imperial Hotel in New Delhi, India, Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012. Obama captured a second White House term, blunting a mighty challenge by Republican Mitt Romney as Americans voted for a leader they knew over a wealthy businessman they did not. (AP Photo/Kevin Frayer)
President Obama supporters gesture and celebrate upon hearing the presidential election results on Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012, in Singapore. Obama won re-election Tuesday night despite a fierce challenge from Republican Mitt Romney, prevailing in the face of a weak economy and high unemployment that encumbered his first term and crimped the middle class dreams of millions. (AP Photo/Wong Maye-E)
U.S. Ambassador to Japan John Roos, center, and Japanese high-school students celebrate reports that President Barack Obama won the presidential election at the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012. (AP Photo/Itsuo Inouye)
Indian students react in front of photographers next to a cardboard cutout in the likeness of U.S. President Barack Obama after he was projected as the winner during an event organized by the U.S embassy at the landmark Imperial Hotel in New Delhi, India, Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012. Obama defeated Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney for a second term. (AP Photo/Kevin Frayer)
U.S. citizens Jaspal Singh, right, and Jane Ludin break into a dance as President Barack Obama's win becomes certain, during a live telecast of U.S. presidential election results organized by the U.S. Embassy in New Delhi, India, Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012. Obama captured a second White House term, blunting a mighty challenge by Republican Mitt Romney as Americans voted for a leader they knew over a wealthy businessman they did not. (AP Photo/Saurabh Das)
Indian students have their picture taken next to a cardboard cutout of President Barack Obama after he was projected as the winner of the U.S. presidential election during an event organized by the U.S. Embassy at the landmark Imperial Hotel in New Delhi, India, Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012. Obama captured a second White House term, blunting a mighty challenge by Republican Mitt Romney as Americans voted for a leader they knew over a wealthy businessman they did not. (AP Photo/Kevin Frayer)
A young woman poses for a photo with a cutout of President Barack Obama, right, beside a cutout of Republican candidate Mitt Romney, left, during an election night event organized by the U.S. embassy in Skopje, Macedonia, early Wednesday, Nov.7, 2012. President Barack Obama won re-election Tuesday night despite a fierce challenge from Republican Mitt Romney. (AP Photo/Boris Grdanoski)
A shop assistant watches US President Barack Obama speaking on TV screen in Moscow TV shop, Russia, Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012. Obama defeated Republican challenger former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney. (AP Photo/Mikhail Metzel)
A U.S citizen reacts as she poses for the media after watching the live telecast of U.S presidential election results in Mumbai, India, Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012. President Barack Obama captured a second White House term, blunting a mighty challenge by Republican Mitt Romney as Americans voted for a leader they knew over a wealthy businessman they did not. (AP Photo/Rafiq Maqbool)
Guests watch live television coverage showing the victory of U.S. President Barack Obama, Wednesday Nov. 7, 2012, in Shanghai, China. (AP Photo/Eugene Hoshiko)
Palestinians at a barber shop watch a televised speech by U.S. President Barack Obama after his vicotry, in the West Bank town of Jenin, Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012.(AP Photo/Mohammed Ballas)
A Muslim woman poses for a photo with a cutout of President Barack Obama during a victory celebration for Obama in the U.S. presidential election in an event hosted by the U.S. Embassy in Jakarta, Indonesia, Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012. (AP Photo/Tatan Syuflana)
