Outlook: A Week of Partisan Votes and Bad Blood - NationalJournal.com
Even when senators don't intend to be controversial, they manage to find their way there anyway.
No one can say quite how it happened, but legislation that was supposed to represent a Kumbaya moment in the Senate last week appears to be headed in the opposite direction. A bipartisan bill to boost aid to victims of human trafficking remains stalled over—depending which side you ask—either unnoticed or ignored language banning funding for abortion services.
It wasn't supposed to be this way. There was a widely supported bill on the floor, and lawmakers were busy prepping for an intense budget debate set to begin in both chambers next week. But now, the trafficking bill holdup has thrown into question the timing for a nail-biter of a vote to confirm Loretta Lynch, President Obama's nominee for attorney general, with a fresh crop of bad feelings over the trafficking bill.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell had said he expected to bring Lynch up for a vote this week. But on CNN's State of the Union on Sunday, McConnell cast doubt on whether that would happen.
"This will have an impact on the timing of considering a new attorney general," McConnell said. "I had hoped to turn to her next week, but if we can't finish the trafficking bill, she will be put off again."
Adam Jentleson, a spokesman for Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid, quickly attacked McConnell's plan.
"There is nothing stopping the Senate from confirming Lynch and continuing to debate the trafficking bill this week, except Senator McConnell's unwillingness to bring her nomination up for a vote," Jentleson said in a statement. "Senator McConnell is choosing to delay Lynch's confirmation despite having already kept her waiting longer than any attorney general nominee in three decades."
The trafficking measure will face a roll call Tuesday that will require 60 votes to continue debate. Reid says Democrats won't support the motion because the legislation will not allow a fund for trafficking victims to cover abortion services except in rape or incest cases. If that language were to be stripped from the bill, he says, Democrats would support it.
But it doesn't look as if that's going to happen. Senate Republicans are accusing Democrats of shifting their position midstream after all of the Judiciary Committee Democrats voted in favor of the legislation. Democrats say the abortion language was slipped into the bill without the knowledge of committee aides. Everyone is mad.
Whenever she does come up for a vote, Lynch is expected to squeak through the Senate with Democrats' support and a small handful of Republicans already pledging to vote in favor. But the vote also will bring a familiar litany of complaints from Republicans toward the Obama administration for executive actions they dislike on immigration. And Lynch will begin her term with only a mild vote of confidence from the Senate.
The House, meanwhile, will return from a much-needed break after a bruising battle over funding the Homeland Security Department that left many on the right upset. House members will pick up where they left off two weeks ago with a few noncontroversial energy bills. Those votes were postponed after House members adjourned a day early to avoid a major snowstorm in Washington.
DEFENSE
“
Health Care Edge is one of my top resources."
Meghan, Associate Specialist
“
Great news in short form along with much needed humor."
Patrick, President of private healthcare consulting firm
“
Informative and help[s] me stay on track. "
Director of Scientific Affairs, Non-profit medicial society
In the wake of 47 Senate Republicans' bold move last week, sending an open letter to Iranian leaders that could strain ongoing nuclear talks, House members will have their chance to weigh in. The House Foreign Affairs Committee will hear testimony from administration officials about the negotiations with Iran to halt its nuclear-weapons program. They will ask whether the nuclear deal will actually quell Iran's weapons program or allow the country to go forward. Testifying will be Deputy Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Adam Szubin, the acting Treasury undersecretary in charge of the Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence.
ENERGY
The House Energy and Commerce Committee will scrutinize the Obama administration's regulations to rein in carbon pollution from power plants at a hearing of the Energy and Power Subcommittee on Tuesday. The regulations are a central pillar of the White House climate-change agenda, and they have sparked fierce criticism from congressional Republicans who say the rules will drive up the cost of electricity.
The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee on Wednesday will kick off an effort to overhaul the nation's chemical safety screening system with a hearing on a bipartisan bill from Sens. David Vitter, R-La., and Tom Udall, D-N.M., that would reform the 1976 Toxic Substances Control Act. Although their bill has support from the industry and 17 bipartisan cosponsors, several public health groups have condemned it and prefer a Democratic bill from Barbara Boxer and Edward Markey, setting up a potential conflict in the committee.
The House Science Committee will tackle the EPA's proposal to lower the air-quality standards for ozone, or ground-level smog, which critics have said will be the most expensive regulation in history. Republicans are sure to use Tuesday's hearing to make the business case that the regulation will be too costly without benefits, while proponents have said it's a necessary public health step.
On Thursday, the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee will wade into the controversial topic of crude-oil exports. The committee will hold a hearing on the decades-old domestic ban on the export of crude oil, a policy that committee Chairwoman Lisa Murkowski says is outdated and needs to be revisited.
TECHNOLOGY
Congressional Republicans will grill Federal Communications Commission officials in a series of hearings this week on the agency's new net-neutrality regulations. FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler will testify on Tuesday before the House Oversight Committee, which is investigating whether the White House improperly influenced the decision of the independent commission. All five commissioners will appear before the Senate Commerce Committee on Wednesday, and then before the House Energy and Commerce Committee on Thursday.
Net-neutrality supporters argue that the rules will prevent Internet providers such as Comcast and Verizon from restricting access to online content, but critics warn they will stifle the industry with utility-style controls. Some Republicans are pushing to repeal the rules entirely, while others want to work with Democrats on compromise legislation that could actually earn Obama's signature.
HEALTH CARE
The Senate Finance Committee holds a hearing Thursday on the status of the Affordable Care Act, a potentially moot exercise as most policymakers are waiting to see how the Supreme Court rules in King v. Burwell on premium subsidies for low-income enrollees. If the justices rule against the ACA's federal subsidies, it could throw Obama's signature health care law into turmoil. Republicans have repeatedly queried administration officials for a contingency plan if that happens, but both White House and congressional Democrats are demurring. Nonetheless, outside experts will offer observations about how the law is operating now to the committee members.
On Tuesday, the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee will hold a hearing on a slightly less inflammatory topic, "America's Health IT Transformation: Translating the Promise of Electronic Health Records Into Better Care."
WHITE HOUSE
This week, President Obama will be celebrating St. Patrick's Day and possibly sweating the Loretta Lynch confirmation vote in the Senate. On Monday, he'll meet with school superintendents from the Council of the Great City Schools at the White House. Tuesday, as is tradition, Obama will hold a bilateral meeting with the Taoiseach of Ireland, Enda Kenny. That evening, he'll hold a St. Patrick's Day reception at the White House. On Wednesday, the president will travel to Cleveland (which also takes St. Patrick's Day pretty seriously) to address the City Club of Cleveland. Back in D.C. on Thursday, Obama will meet with Britain's Prince Charles and Camilla, the Duchess of Cornwall. On Friday, the president will deliver remarks at the White House Student Film Festival.
Clare Foran, Jason Plautz, Brendan Sasso, James Oliphant, and Sam Baker contributed to this article.

