http://ibnlive.in.com/news/delhi-elections-congress-bjp-corner-aap-over-bogus-funding-by-fake-companies-demand-probe/526241-37-64.html
Delhi elections: Congress, BJP corner AAP over 'bogus' funding by 'fake' companies, demand probe
New Delhi: The BJP and Congress have sought to corner the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) over the alleged dubious donations and demanded a probe into it.
Talking to mediapersons, Power Minister Piyush Goyal and Commerce Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the companies from which AAP was receiving donations from were questionable and asked the Election Commission to look into the matter.
Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi demanded an "indepth investigation" into the alleged dubious donations to AAP. "Those who used to give lectures, saying that we are snow white and descended from heaven are allegedly taking money from dubious companies," he said and claimed that between the devil and the deep sea, the people of Delhi have only Congress to choose.
Goyal said the findings of AAP Volunteer Action Manch (AVAM) were really shocking. "There are companies which are fake, they do not have management. When found through four companies, they provided funds to AAP at midnight. When we visited the website, we found there is no profit of the company and they are not biding by the rules under Companies Rules and Act," he said.
Sitharaman alleged that shell companies were created to transfer money to AAP. These companies are not permitted to donate because they have not made any profit and the set of directors of 31 companies were the same.
"When they received these four cheques on their website the fund collected was showing only Rs 55 lakh while they had received Rs 2 crore. They are hiding more than revealing," she said.
Shazia Ilmi, former AAP leader who joined BJP recently, launched a personal attack on AAP chief ministerial candidate Arvind Kejriwal and alleged he was not practicing what he was preaching. She vouched for AVAM members who revealed the funding details saying she had seen them working in AAP office and also campaigning for Kejriwal in Varanasi during 2013 Lok Sabha elections.
Earlier, alleging corruption in AAP, some former members of the party on Monday claimed that the party is gathering donations from fake companies.
AVAM alleged that the AAP has made bogus entries to evade tax. "The donation was given in 2014 but the company has not earned a single rupee or done any business. Where do they get their money from," asked AVAM member Gopal Goyal.
Goyal also claimed that the companies can be searched on the AAP website through the four transaction IDs mentioned in AVAM's press release. Naming a Hem Prakash Sharma who resides in D-276, Ramlila Park, Ganga Vihar, AVAM said that he is the director of 11 companies and lives in a very dilapidated house.
Countering AVAM's allegations, AAP leader Pankaj Gupta blamed the Bharatiya Janta Party for the charges. "We have received money from cheque. If a company is forged then it's not AAP's fault. BJP is using AVAM for political benefit," Gupta said.
AAP leader Mayank Gandhi also rubbished AVAM's claims and said that his party is built on transparent funding. "BJP has entire machinery. We challenge them to probe our funding. These are dirty tricks by the BJP again," he said.
