Employees Paying More for Premiums, Deductibles
U.S. workers have yet to see the benefits of slowing rates in health care costs. In fact, a new report shows their wallets have continued to be hit increasingly hard during the last decade when it comes to premiums and deductibles.
The report, from the research group the Commonwealth Fund, looks at trends in premium and deductible growth state-by-state during a 10-year period. It finds that health insurance costs grew faster than income in every state, with Southern states facing the highest cost burdens because of low median incomes. Average total premiums equaled 22 percent or more of median income in 12 Southern states. In 15 states, employees’ annual payment for their share of premiums rose by 100 percent or more.
“Slow wage growth means working families in every state are being squeezed by health care costs,” Sara Collins, vice president for health care coverage and access at the Commonwealth Fund, said in a statement.
[READ: Workers Are Paying More for Insurance]
The report showed potential out-of-pocket costs for health care also increased. Deductibles, or the maximum payment workers take on for care before insurance companies kick in, at least doubled or more in all but six states and the District of Columbia since 2003.
In 2003, no state had an average deductible of as high as $1,000. Today, 80 percent of workers who have employer-sponsored insurance have a per-person deductible that exceeds $1,000 in all but three states and the District of Columbia.
The combination of out-of-pocket costs, premiums and deductibles results in a higher share of median incomes in all states compared with 2003.
Dr. David Blumenthal, president of the Commonwealth Fund, said in a phone call with reporters Wednesday that higher costs for health care may cause Americans to put off much-needed services.
The growth in costs for patients is not mirroring the slowing growth of health insurance costs overall. The report showed that employer-provided health insurance premiums grew more slowly in 31 states and the District of Columbia between 2010 and 2013, following the passage of the Affordable Care Act, President Barack Obama's health care reform bill.
[ALSO: Ringing in 2015 with Health Insurance]
Nationally, employer-sponsored average annual premiums grew 5.1 percent from 2003 to 2010, but slowed to 4.1 percent growth from 2010 to 2013.
Since income grew slowly during this period, however, average annual premiums from both employers and employees represented 20 percent or more of household income in 37 states, compared to only two states – New Mexico and West Virginia – in 2003.
Growth rates varied by state. In Alaska, Colorado, Indiana, Maryland, New Hampshire, New Jersey, Ohio, South Dakota, West Virginia and Wyoming, premium growth rates from 2010 to 2013 remained high, at 6 percent per year or more. In 31 other states and the District of Columbia the premium growth rates slowed. Arizona, Delaware, Florida, Louisiana, Maine, Mississippi, Nebraska, North Carolina, Oregon, Rhode Island, Virginia and Wisconsin, showed a three-percentage point decline. In Louisiana premiums went from 7 percent average annual growth to a decline of 0.1 percent in 2013.
The price of family premiums also varied by state. In 2013, family premiums ranged from a low of $13,477 to $14,382 in Alabama, Arkansas, Idaho, Mississippi and Hawaii, to a high of $17,262 to $20,715 in the District of Columbia, New Jersey, Massachusetts, New York and Alaska.
Among the under-65 population, 82 percent live where premiums total 20 percent or more of income. In Alaska, Arkansas, Kentucky, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas and West Virginia, average premiums were 25 percent to 28 percent of the state median income in 2013.
[MORE: Growing Old Around the World]
Authors of the report say engaging private and public sectors is the way to keep premium growth down without taking away from health benefits. Policymakers, they write, will need to “pursue reforms that improve the quality of health care, rein in cost growth and ensure that savings are shared with patients and families across the income spectrum.”

