Most States Not Prepared for Infectious Diseases
Are Americans getting smug about controlling infectious diseases? Some researchers seem to think so.
Though the U.S. has taken significant strides during the last decade in its ability to harness infections, the lack of preparation for Ebola this year should serve as a major wake-up call, experts say.
"Ebola raised attention to serious gaps in our ability to manage disease outbreaks and contain their spread," Jeffrey Levi, executive director of the Trust For America's Health, said in a call with reporters Thursday. "It was alarming that many of the most basic infectious disease-control policies failed when tested."
[READ: Ebola Scams Hit the Web]
Funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, the Trust For America's Health explored response policies for Ebola and other infectious diseases, including enterovirus, salmonella, HIV and antibiotic-resistant superbugs. The organization presented its findings Thursday in a state-by-state report that concluded there are gaps in the country's ability to manage severe threats of infectious disease.
In the report, states received one point for achieving an indicator or zero points if they did not achieve the indicator. Zero was the lowest possible overall score, while 10 was the highest. The indicators were developed as a result of conversations with leading public health experts, and based on data from publicly available sources or information provided by public officials.
Half of states and the District of Columbia scored a 5 or lower out of 10 possible indicators related to preventing, detecting, diagnosing and responding to outbreaks.
The best states to live in if you have an infectious disease? Maryland, Massachusetts, Tennessee, Vermont and Virginia all tied for the top score by achieving eight out of 10 indicators.
By achieving two out of 10, Arkansas had the lowest score.
The authors said certain priorities need to be in place to ensure better health. Each state, for instance, should have the funding needed to contain infectious diseases, distribute vaccines and medicines and provide continued training at hospitals.
"[A] disturbing weakness in the system is the tendency to focus on the newest and most alarming threat at the expense of maintaining a steady defense against the ongoing and costly illnesses that affect communities nationwide every year," Levi said. "When there is no major threat dominating headlines, we start letting our guard down, cut funds for programs – and then are caught off-guard and underprepared for the next outbreak."
Levi sees Ebola's presence in the U.S. as an example of how basic infectious disease-control practices failed. "The Ebola outbreak is a reminder that we cannot afford to let our guard down. We must remain vigilant in preventing and controlling emerging threats," he said.
Infectious diseases cost the country $120 billion a year, said Dr. Eric Toner, a senior associate at the UPMC Center for Health Security. They are the leading cause of death worldwide for people under the age of 60.
[ALSO: Health Officials Tell Seniors to Get Flu, Pneumococcal Vaccines]
"We often wait until a new disease poses a threat to ramp up our defenses," Toner said. "Maintaining a strong and steady baseline would be a better strategy for protecting our health care workers and the public – and ultimately would be less costly than constantly trying to backfill a broken system."
Here are some key findings in the report related to vaccinations, health care-acquired infections, sexually transmitted infections and foodborne illnesses.
VaccinationsMore than 2 million preschoolers, 35 percent of seniors and a majority of adults are not getting recommended vaccines, according to the report.
"There are some very unfortunate arguments about whether vaccines work or not," Levi said, adding that the number of people who choose to get vaccinated shows how well officials are educating the public, but also how policies are still needed to limit the exceptions people have for meeting public health standards.
The report showed that 14 states vaccinated half of their populations against the seasonal flu in the later 2013-2014 season, and 35 states and the District of Columbia met the goal for vaccinating young children against the hepatitis B virus in 2013.
When measured against a federal "Healthy People 2020" goal that at least 90 percent of children receive certain vaccine dosages, the U.S. met its target with 90.8 percent coverage in 2013, when 30 states had coverage of 90 percent or more. Vaccination coverage ranged from a high of 96.7 percent in Rhode Island to a low of 84.1 percent in Colorado.
[MORE: Fewer Americans Harmed or Killed by Hospital Errors]
Health Care-Associated Infections
Health care-associated infections have declined in recent years because of stronger prevention policies, the report said. Still, there is more work to do – one out of every 25 people hospitalized gets a health care-associated infection. "We need a high-level commitment to rigorous infection control in every hospital across the country," Toner said.
The report said 16 states performed better than the 2012 national standardized infection ratio for central line-associated bloodstream infections, while 10 states reduced the number of central line-associated bloodstream infections between 2011 and 2012.
Sexually Transmitted Infections
The report also examined gonorrhea, of which one-third of cases are now antibiotic-resistant. In addition, nearly 3 million baby boomers are infected with hepatitis C – and the majority don't know they have it.
Foodborne Illness
Authors of the report said all Americans should know they can be served by health departments, regardless of the state in which they live.
"Fighting infectious diseases means having systems in place – with continued training and practice as well as sustained and sufficient resources," Toner said.

