http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/Jamie-Stiehm/2015/03/02/netanyahu-to-deliver-speech-to-a-congress-divided
Speaking to a House Divided
The day when Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin was slain, President Bill Clinton wept when he heard the news. That was 1995, 20 years ago. How far we've fallen since.
Clinton knew the wise old general, moving toward peace, was irreplaceable. The American president loved his spirit, personally. Is the branch broken compared to then?
Now look at things. The Israeli prime minister is coming to address Congress tomorrow, after entering through the back door of protocol. Usually one head of state invites another, but the hard-right Israeli leader Benjamin Netanyahu is coming at the behest of Republican House Speaker John Boehner. The House chamber will be the scene of the most provocative speech by a foreign leader since I don’t know when. It will directly challenge the president of the United States on Iran during one of our most complex foreign policy negotiations.
[MORE: Political Cartoons on Congress]
The Tuesday scene is a brazen affront to President Barack Obama, who is playing the perfect gentleman as always. Under the usual rules of play, the United States does not invite foreign leaders over to visit if they are facing an election. We don’t like to seem as if we are meddling in domestic policy. Well, “Bibi” (as he’s known) is facing an election within weeks. It’s a violation of protocol, but the situation festers far worse than that.
The gall of Boehner and Netanyahu is troubling to American democracy, which is quite fragile at the moment. (The third man in the plot was the American-born Ron Dermer, the Israeli ambassador.) The Republican Congress is clearly at odds with almost anything the Democratic president does. The defiant invitation by Boehner seems to fan the flames of a house divided.
What’s more, foreign policy is supposed to be something we’re united on at home, officially, according to the old “water’s edge” expression. The treaty with Iran on nuclear weapons is at a tense, delicate point now, bound to be roiled by Netanyahu’s address. At the least, Netanyahu may plead for an extension of the treaty deadline. He is sure to cause drama that Obama doesn’t need now as several nations zero in on a long-sought deal with Iran.
[See: Editorial Cartoons on Barack Obama ]
Some Democratic members say they will skip the antagonistic address. Democratic members who are present on the floor can show peaceful resistance by not clapping or turning their backs on Netanyahu when he is done.
On the way home from Rabin’s funeral, Republican House Speaker Newt Gingrich disgraced himself by fussing when he wasn’t invited to speak with the president on Air Force One. Boehner was one of his House acolytes. It is a shame to see the politics of pettiness still rule the minds of some House speakers.
Most Americans disapprove of Netanyahu’s visit as an attempt to manipulate the president on foreign policy. The candles of friendship don’t burn as bright. Netanyahu may think this is the best way to win the election at home, even if he alienates allies abroad. The Israeli people will have the last word on that.
