Betrayal and Bloodsport
Note to American voters: “If you have tears, prepare to shed them now.” The Bard understands our pain in this sour hour.
The show-stopping line from William Shakespeare’s play "Julius Caesar," spoken by the grieving Mark Antony, feels like a perfect fit for the country’s disenchanted mood. For Washington theatergoers, a smashing production, which just opened at the Folger Theatre, is even more lifelike with the Capitol gleaming nearby on the night landscape.
Some change is afoot in the midterm elections today, but the vibe shall stay the same. Send in the clowns.
The election may oust a few familiar senators who thought they were done deals: Pat Roberts of Kansas and Mitch McConnell of Kentucky are two Republicans who have had to fight hard for re-election. And my hunch is Democrats will hold on to their Senate seats in Arkansas and North Carolina. (Colorado, not so much.)
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on President Obama]
Whatever happens, President Barack Obama and Congress will not be able to agree on anything at all. Obama will leave office diminished. Let’s say the Senate barely stays in Democratic control. The House will surely stay red. House Republicans, egged on by Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, will intensify the character assassination and obstruction already on the agenda. From the moment Cruz, the main antagonist, and the Republican House majority landed a few years ago, they have tried to take down Obama’s presidency. Sadly, the charismatic president did not know how many enemies he had. The House tea partiers have been aided backstage by crafty Senate Minority Leader McConnell, who vowed to make Obama fail from the very first days.
The Roman Senate is, of course, where valiant Julius Caesar was surrounded and stabbed until his blood stained the marble, swords and all hands (“up to the elbows”). Betrayed most of all by his friend Brutus – “Et tu?” – Caesar falls stoically in front of the conspirators. Though you well know what’s coming, it’s the play’s most chilling moment on the Folger’s Elizabethan-style stage. Anthony Cochrane brilliantly portrays Marcus Brutus and his complex motivations.
To see a mighty leader suffer such cuts and slights, real or imagined, echoed Obama’s plight. The onetime political rock star just can’t find a friend. Few in his party defend him, and fewer still wish to be seen at state fairs or political rallies with him.
[MORE: Editorial Cartoons on the 2014 Congressional Elections]
A weak and isolated figure, Obama is the antithesis of the conqueror Caesar, who was rising too high, perhaps gaining too much power for one man – a tyrant? – in Rome. But in his more charismatic younger days, especially as a campaigner, Obama resembled the gleaming Octavius, Caesar’s great-nephew and political heir, meant to represent the ideals Caesar had lost along the way: peace, freedom and liberty. It was an age ago and felt like another country, but Obama held up the mantle of the newcomer and reclaimer of the ways we had lost.
This is strictly my own reading, not the intention of the Folger’s creative team. Robert Richmond, the play's British director, said he appreciates the relevance here and now, especially on Election Day 2014. “It’s my mission and passion to bring Shakespeare into the 21st century.” Yet, Richmond added, “the political standpoint is more universal.”
Fair enough. In the end, the dead Brutus is proclaimed “the noblest Roman of them all.” Mark Antony, eloquently played by actor Maurice Jones, paid tribute to Brutus' heart for the common good. Dead or alive, maybe there's hope for our political opposites to attract someday. Not today, but someday.

