http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/Jamie-Stiehm/2014/10/20/obama-ebola-czar-ron-klain-will-master-the-crisis
The Man for the Job
Good pick, Mr. President. Ron Klain, designated as the new Ebola czar by President Barack Obama, is the right man for the job. In a White House of breaking bad news, this "Master of Disaster" appointment showed some hardheaded sense.
Yes, there are grumbles from the usual Republican suspects that Klain has no medical knowledge, and I say unto them: Who cares? He'll have people with M.D.s for the expertise he needs to stop this fatal beast in its tracks. Reality is one thing, and public perception is another. And yes, sometimes style matters as much as substance in our city on a hill.
[GALLERY: Cartoons on the Ebola Outbreak]
Besides vigor, poise and confidence, what Klain possesses is tremendous political talent. There is not a cooler Democratic head in town. Since he was young, he has given much older men sage political advice and strategy. Most journos who have walked the Senate halls of the Capitol have seen or spoken to Klain, including me, over the years. The denizen, or "operative," didn't just know what was going on today, he knew about tomorrow, too. And what was on the table at the Tuesday party lunch. Klain was like a political weather almanac. Across the aisle, he was even friends with Peggy Noonan.
Klain, 53, also became known as an adept presidential debate coach and as the chief of staff to two vice presidents: Al Gore and his old Senate boss, Joe Biden. As Washington has grown bitterly partisan since 1994, Klain has pushed Democrats to be better team players, which is not their strong suit.
[READ: Ebola 'Czar' Ron Klain Must Tread Carefully in New Post]
The saddest moment in Klain's career was his failure to win a Florida court challenge to get the 2000 presidential election votes recounted in the Bush-Gore deadlock. (Klain was general counsel to Gore's recount committee.) The failure was a historic heartbreaker for half the electorate – or more than half the electorate, as Gore had won the popular vote. I was counting on Klain to win that one, but now I see that the Supreme Court was all in for George W. Bush.
The beleaguered Obama administration badly needed a win, much like the city's (unmentionable) football team. The 53-year-old president, a Harvard Law School man, chose another Harvard Law man. Granted, the president's a bit of a snob. Nonetheless, Obama chose someone who will swiftly put to rest concerns about competence on the Ebola front.
