The Bard's Message to Washington
The Shakespeare's Globe grand tour starts here in Washington, D.C. Catch the wind at the Folger Theatre, where you'll see the "King Lear" of your life. Yes, this is like a 100-year event on the arts floodplain. It's William Shakespeare's 400th birthday year, and to celebrate the Bard properly, Shakespeare's Globe Theatre in London is sending players around the globe, so to speak, to perform a Shakespearean play in every country in the world.
Is that not lofty, even noble?
The "King Lear" cast of eight, in a small-scale Globe production starring Joseph Marcell, will travel to other U.S. cities, including Santa Monica. Disarming us before the play began on the Folger's Elizabethan-style stage, actors came up to audience members to chat beforehand. Shanaya Rafaat, the young actress whom we met, soon went into character under the stage lights as one of Lear's grasping, wicked daughters, Regan.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on the Islamic State]
The play first turns on inheritance: Which of the aging king's three daughters loves him best? Clear-eyed Cordelia, the youngest, answers her father in a way that enrages him, and he banishes her. The king's fury sets the scene for the disorder and madness which take him over. The outside world surrounding Lear descends into mad violence, extinguishing him in the end.
On the way home, my friend and I wondered why Shakespeare's Globe chose "King Lear" for us. Of all the comedies, histories and other tragedies in Will's oeuvre, this seemed hard to watch. Like when the Earl of Gloucester's eyes are plucked out. Not that I'm complaining, but I just wonder if a subtle statement is there betwixt and between the lines about reason and justice unraveling. The drama's last lines, spoken by Edgar, seem all too true for Sept. 11, 2001, the shattering morning that greeted a new ruler in our realm:
In an imaginative, bold act of sharing its greatest gift, Britannia still rules the cultural waves in a world terribly troubled in the 21st century. Frankly, if this century were a Broadway show, it would have closed by now in New York. If the century were playing on London's West End, it would still be open because London became the global capital while we weren't looking, especially during the stunning Olympic ceremonies. Boy, do they know how to put on a show.
[MORE: Cartoons on Defense Spending]
We Americans don't do tragedy very well. We often worship optimism and persistence and believe in Dale Carnegie and happy endings – in the 20th century, anyway. By sending over Shakespeare's most profound and haunting tragedy, the mother country may help us obey the weight of this sad time, with wars that we started but can't finish.

