http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/Ken-Walshs-Washington/2015/03/13/a-growing-lack-of-trust
A Growing Lack of Trust
The political atmosphere in Washington is deteriorating. Again.
The latest flashpoint was an open letter from 47 Republican senators warning leaders of Iran that any nuclear deal they make with President Barack Obama could be voided immediately by Obama’s successor. White House officials cried foul. They denounced the letter as an attempt to undermine Obama’s negotiations with Tehran and represented a “rush to war.” Vice President Joe Biden, a former Democratic senator from Delaware, seethed. In a statement to reporters, he said, “In 36 years in the United States Senate, I cannot recall another instance in which senators wrote directly to advise another country – much less a longtime foreign adversary – that the president does not have the constitutional authority to reach a meaningful understanding with them. …The decision to undercut our president and circumvent our constitutional system offends me as a matter of principle.”
[READ: GOP Senators Probably Broke Law With Iran Letter]
Mutual hostility has become a pattern in Washington. For months, Obama’s Democratic administration and the Republican majority in Congress have been bypassing and insulting each other in full-fledged partisan warfare. And it’s getting worse.
Obama has been taking executive action to sidestep Congress on issues from immigration to climate change. And Congress is striking back. GOP leaders tried to block funding for the Department of Homeland Security recently in order to stop Obama’s executive action halting the deportation of millions of people who entered the United States illegally. But the Republicans failed, increasing their frustration. Looming just ahead is a confrontation over the debt ceiling and another possible government shutdown.
Several weeks ago, GOP leaders delivered a stinging rebuke to Obama when House Speaker John Boehner of Ohio invited Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to address a joint meeting of Congress without informing the White House in advance, a break with protocol. Netanyahu proceeded to warn the Obama administration that a deal with Iran would lead to the Tehran regime making a nuclear bomb that would threaten Israel’s existence.
Iran and its six negotiating partners, the United States, Great Britain, China, France, Germany and Russia, have a self-imposed deadline at the end of March to find a compromise that would end any Iranian effort to build nuclear weapons.
Most Senate Republicans, and some Democrats, don’t believe Iran is negotiating in good faith. Freshman Sen. Tom Cotton, an Arkansas Republican, drafted the controversial letter as a way to make the talks more difficult because he says Iranian leaders can’t be trusted. The letter says, “The next president could revoke such an executive agreement [with Iran] with the stroke of a pen, and future Congresses could modify the terms of the agreement at any time.”
WATCH
Democrats were furious. Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada, the party’s leader in the Senate, said Republicans couldn’t accept that Obama has been elected twice as president and they want to stymie him as much as they can. “Let’s be very clear: Republicans are undermining our commander in chief while empowering the ayatollahs,” Reid said on the Senate floor. For his part, Obama reminded reporters that Iranian hardliners also don’t want a deal and he added: “It’s somewhat ironic that some members of Congress want to make common cause with the hard-liners in Iran. It’s an unusual coalition.”
No Democratic senator signed the letter and seven Republicans dissented, including Bob Corker of Tennessee, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and Sen. Susan Collins of Maine. They expressed concern that the letter might anger Democrats and jeopardize getting the minority party’s support for other efforts to block an agreement with Tehran. Critics also said the letter might give the Iranians an excuse to reject a deal. “It is never a good idea for elected leaders to give foreigners, and especially foreign enemies, a formal invitation to join our domestic arguments, “Phil Zelikow, a senior adviser to former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, told The Washington Post. “It is not the conduct one would ordinarily expect from leaders of a great power.”
Former Sen. Richard Lugar, an Indiana Republican, the respected ex-chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said the episode revealed a “lack of trust” between the political parties. This was an understatement.
