http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/Ken-Walshs-Washington/2015/03/06/email-issue-dogs-hillary-clinton
Email Issue Dogs Hillary Clinton
In the latest political furor swirling around Hillary Clinton, Republicans are piling on the Democratic presidential front-runner because she kept many potentially sensitive emails off limits to outside scrutiny during her four years as secretary of state. Fellow Democrats are trying to deflect the controversy from Clinton by attacking GOP presidential candidates.
But some Democrats are concerned that the fuss is reviving bad old memories of a major Clinton vulnerability – a penchant for secrecy that extends back to her eight years as first lady during her husband Bill Clinton's presidency, and that sometimes makes it appear she has something to hide.
David Axelrod, former chief political strategist for President Barack Obama, told MSNBC, "However this turns out, this problem is being exacerbated by the lack of answers from the Clinton campaign or the nascent campaign. And it would be good to get out there and answer these questions: Why did she use a separate email? How did she secure that email? Was there another email through which she communicated with people? By not answering these questions, they're allowing the story to fester in ways that are unhelpful."
[READ: Hillary Rodham Clinton Urges State Dept. to Release Her Emails]
The flashpoint is that Clinton exclusively used a private email system and server to conduct official business, bypassing congressional oversight and the administration's record-keeping preferences and policies.
Raj Shah, research director for the Republican National Committee, noted that RNC Counsel John Phillippe's wrote a letter Thursday to the State Department Inspector General "calling for an investigation into Clinton's private email address and 'home-brewed' server," and that "the RNC is continuing to raise serious questions regarding Clinton's decision to undermine federal guidelines intended to ensure proper government archiving and public access to records."
In an email to reporters, Shah criticized "Team Clinton's 'tried and true pattern' when under fire: '(1) hide the candidate, (2) baselessly claim that reports are false, and (3) release a series of talking points detached from reality.'"
On Wednesday night, Clinton tweeted, "I want the public to see my email. I asked State to release them. They said they will review them for release as soon as possible."
But opposition Republicans say Clinton only gave the State Department the emails she and her staff had reviewed, not all of them. Some conservatives suggested that perhaps Clinton's private emails weren't properly safeguarded and may have been open to scrutiny by U.S. enemies and hackers.
The Democratic National Committee jumped into the fray to deflect attention from Clinton, the overwhelming front-runner for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2016. The DNC's response Thursday was to attack possible Republican candidates for president.
[OPINION: What if There’s No Hillary Clinton for President 2016 Campaign?]
"This week we have observed many Republicans become outraged over questions about email," DNC Press Secretary Holly Shulman told reporters in an email. "It is surprising at the very least just how silent these same Republicans have been about members of their own party who have used their own private servers, conducted office business on private email accounts, have stonewalled open record requests, have routinely deleted official emails, and more."
Among the examples cited was former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, a possible Republican presidential candidate in 2016, who, Shulman said, "did not turn over emails from his private account (hosted on a server he owns) to the state that he deemed 'not relevant to the public record.' And though he cites 'the spirit of transparency' as the reason he released some of the emails, the truth is he was required by law to do so."
The GOP-controlled House Select Committee on Benghazi has issued subpoenas for all Clinton's communications regarding Libya, where four Americans died in a terrorist attack while Clinton was secretary of state. Some GOP legislators say she didn't do enough to protect the Americans. "The Benghazi Select Committee needs to see all of these emails, because the American people deserve all of the facts," House Speaker John Boehner said in a news release.

