http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/Ken-Walshs-Washington/2014/12/09/minority-approve-of-obama-on-race
Minority Approve of Obama on Race
Black and white Americans have starkly different opinions on how President Obama is handling race relations, according to the latest poll by the Pew Research Center and USA Today.
The survey finds that only 40 percent of Americans approve of Obama's handling of race relations and 50 percent disapprove. This is a marked deterioration in his standing on the issue from four months ago, when a controversial police shooting occurred in Ferguson, Missouri. In August, 48 per cent approved of Obama's handling of race relations and 42 percent disapproved.
[READ: Obama Administration Announces New Racial Profiling Guidelines]
There is a clear racial division in public opinion, but Obama's approval rating on race relations has declined among both blacks and whites. Fifty-seven percent of blacks approve of Obama on race relations and 33 percent disapprove – a drop of 16 points since August. These numbers are reversed for whites; 57 percent of whites disapprove of Obama on race relations and 33 percent approve. This represents a 9 point decline in approval by whites since August.
The poll was released as Obama tries to take a cautious, balanced approach to two incidents that have riled Americans and caused many protests around the country in recent weeks. The first was a grand jury's decision not to indict a white Ferguson, Missouri police officer in the shooting death of an unarmed black teenager. The second was a grand jury's decision not to indict a white New York City police officer in the choking death of an unarmed black man. Blacks are more likely than whites to say that race was a major factor in both grand jury decisions.
Obama, the first African-American president, has been urging improvements in racial justice while at the same time trying not to undermine support for the criminal justice system, including the police and the courts.
[READ: Ferguson Fallout: Obama Wants Cop Body Cams]
In an interview with BET Networks airing Monday, Obama said friction between minorities and police is "deeply rooted in our history." But he added: "It's important to recognize that as painful as these incidents are, we can't equate what is happening now to what happened 50 years ago ... The reason it's important to understand that progress has been made is that it then gives us hope we can make even more progress."
Obama met with young African-American activists at the White House last week, and told them that change is "hard and incremental" but much progress on racial matters has been made over the years.
