http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/Ken-Walshs-Washington/2014/10/27/gaffes-populate-2014-campaigns
Gaffes Populate 2014 Campaigns
It's the season for political gaffes, when politicians step into what former President George H.W. Bush called "deep doo-doo."
Sometimes the gaffes are momentary lapses brought on by fatigue, lack of discipline or a misplaced attempt to be funny. These mistakes may be good for a laugh or two, but have little or no larger meaning. Yet sometimes gaffes provide important insights into the candidates and their surrogates--their quirks, character, vulnerabilities, and innermost feelings.
[MORE: The 6 Senate Races That Are Too Close to Call]
First lady Michelle Obama is usually a deft public speaker but she has been falling into the gaffe pit lately. She confused Sen. Mark Udall, D-Colo., with his challenger, Republican Cory Gardner, when she said Udall is a "fifth-generation Coloradoan." Not true. The first lady had earlier called Rep. Bruce Braley, who is running as a Democrat for the U.S. Senate from Iowa, "Bruce Bailey." White House officials then referred to Braley as a "Democratic candidate for governor," which is not the office he is actually seeking, that of senator. Republicans said these gaffes add to the perception of White House dysfunction.
President Barack Obama committed what was widely seen as a gaffe when he told the Rev. Al Sharpton recently in a radio interview that he doesn't take it personally when Democratic candidates steer clear of him in their campaigns. That's because "these are all folks who vote with me," the president said. "They have supported my agenda in Congress." The president added: "So this isn't about my feelings being hurt. These are folks who are strong allies and supporters of me and, I tell them--I said, 'You know what? You do what you need to do to win. I will be responsible for making sure that our voters turn out.'"
These remarks were widely seen as a mistake. They tied Obama to Democratic candidates in conservative states such as Alaska, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana and North Carolina who have been trying to distance themselves from him. This may not be a problem for loyal Democrats but the president's comments may stir up Republican voters and increase their motivation to cast their ballots. And the comments could hurt Democrats with independent voters who have turned against Obama and don't want members of Congress to side with him.
Political scientist Jonathan Bernstein, writing for Bloomberg View, said gaffes can make a difference in some campaigns, such as those for the Senate. "For one thing, they don't generate as much information as presidential elections," Bernstein wrote. "And with less other information available, a voter in a Senate contest might give more weight to a gaffe, an event or a bit of opposition research packaged in a TV ad...[A]n insipid comment could be repeated widely enough to reach those swing voters and make a significant difference.
See Photos
Here are some other gaffes from the current election cycle:
--At a Senate debate in Kentucky, Democratic candidate Alison Lundergan Grimes refused to say whether she voted for President Obama, her party leader, in 2008 or 2012. Grimes said she didn't want to violate the tradition of a secret ballot, which seemed to be a weak excuse for her refusal to associate herself publicly with the unpopular president.
--Republican Gov. Rick Scott of Florida refused to take the stage at a debate with Democratic candidate Charlie Crist because Crist had a fan installed under his podium to keep him cool. Scott supporters said this broke the debate rules. Scott eventually relented, took the stage and debated his opponent but he was roundly criticized for getting preoccupied with trivia when there were serious issues to discuss.
--Sen. Pat Roberts, R-Kan., told a radio interviewer in July that, "Every time I get an opponent--I mean, every time I get a chance, I'm home" in Kansas. This remark played into the hands of critics who say Roberts has become too much a creature of Washington and has lost touch with his constituents back home.
[MORE: Mark Udall, Cory Gardner Betting on Ground Game in Colorado Senate Race]
-- Braley, the Democratic Senate candidate in Iowa, derided Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, for being "a farmer from Iowa who never went to law school." This comment made Braley appear insensitive to the many farmers in his state, who are a key voting bloc. Braley apologized.
--Vice President Joe Biden, whose propensity for gaffes has plagued him for years, recently was forced to apologize to leaders of Turkey and the United Arab Emirates after he told an audience at Harvard that the two countries were the "biggest problem" for the United States in dealing with Islamic extremists in the Syrian civil war. Biden said the governments in those two countries funneled money and supplies to groups fighting Syrian dictator Bashar Assad, and some of that assistance found its way to the extremists. Biden's comments intensified the argument of Obama administration critics that the president's policy in the Middle East is confused and inept.
So the gaffes keep erupting. And with all the pressure on the candidates and their surrogates, all the appearances they make, and all the media scrutiny they endure, there will surely be more of them.

