Ebola Czar Meets With Criticism
President Barack Obama's appointment of former White House aide Ron Klain as the administration's Ebola "czar" is rankling Republicans.
Klain is a veteran Democratic strategist and former chief of staff to Vice Presidents Joe Biden and Al Gore. He will coordinate the federal effort to control the deadly Ebola virus.
But some Republicans aren't happy. They say Obama should have appointed someone with a strong background in medicine or public health.
[MORE: Ebola Scams Hit the Web]
"Mr. Klain is not a doctor; he's not a health care professional; he doesn't have background in these issues," Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, told CNN Sunday. "We don't need a White House political operative, which is what Mr. Klain has been. What we need is presidential leadership. The person who needs to be on top of this is the president of the United States."
Klain is considered a good administrator, but he alienated some in the GOP because of his key role in handling Gore's effort to win the disputed presidential election in Florida in 2000. In the end, the Supreme Court ruled that Gore lost Florida to Republican candidate George W. Bush, who went on to serve as president for two terms.
See Photos
Cruz is among the many legislators, mostly Republicans but also some Democrats such as Sens. Kay Hagan of North Carolina and Michelle Nunn of Georgia, who support a suspension of commercial air travel into the United States from West African countries where Ebola is prevalent. Hagan and Nunn are in close re-election races. Rep. Tim Murphy, R-Pa., chairman of a House oversight subcommittee, endorsed the travel restrictions Sunday. "This is like dealing with terrorism," Murphy told Fox News. "We have to be right 100 percent of the time, and Ebola only has to get in once."
During the weekend, Obama again tried to walk a tightrope between showing that the government is effectively fighting Ebola and emphasizing that there is no need for alarm.
[READ: 10 Things to Know About Ebola]
In his Saturday address to the nation, Obama continued to oppose a travel ban that would prevent people from West Africa from entering the United States. "We can't just cut ourselves off from West Africa, where this disease is raging," the president said. "Trying to seal off an entire region of the world – if that were even possible – could actually make the situation worse." Such a move might make it more difficult for aid workers, health-care professionals, soldiers, equipment and supplies to reach areas that are in trouble, Obama said.
Obama added: "We can't give in to hysteria or fear because that only makes it harder to get people the accurate information they need. If we're guided by science – the facts, not fear – then I am absolutely confident we can prevent a serious outbreak here in the United States."
One person – a man from Liberia who was visiting Texas – has died of Ebola in the United States. But two nurses who treated the man in Dallas have also contracted the disease. The nurses are currently undergoing treatment.


