Email Bedevils Democrats ... Again?
The Democrats are supposed to be the party of innovation, right?
They present themselves as the ones with new ideas, all that “party of change” business. They were the first to put the White House online. The revel in their connection to the so-called millennials, a bond created over the early adoption of new technology and platforms. One of their presidential candidates even claimed for a brief time that he “took the initiative in creating the Internet,” until the improbability of that statement became clear.
The people who actually did invent the Internet and populate it with programs and websites and make up the bulk of the high-tech industry in Silicon Valley also love the Democrats. MoveOn.org, one of the party’s most important and influential outside groups, was started by the folks who developed the “Flying Toaster” screen saver. High-tech money fills the party’s coffers to the point that it has significantly influenced policy on trade, on certain types of immigration and on the taxation of returns on investment.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on Hillary Clinton]
So how come there are some many prominent people in the administration who can’t seem to make their email work?
This is not hard. Little children can do it. Yet we can now add former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton – known as HDR22@clintonmail.com, among other things, to many of her associates and subordinates – to the list of senior Democrats who do not seem to comprehend the rules governing email in the federal government.
The latest reports indicate she not only used private email for official business, but that Clinton may have maintained some kind of private e-mail network run off a secret server located in her Chappaqua, New York, home. This, apparently, in violation of federal record-keeping laws, standard cybersecurity measures and good, old-fashioned common sense. Ultimately, the extent of the issue will probably be something the U.S. Department of Justice will have to determine. (And no one is holding their breath that they will do it quickly or will find that anything that contravened the plain reading of the governing authorities.)
We know the administration is aware of the issues involved; it’s been dealing with them from its earliest days, after reporters started asking if the then-newly elected president would continue to use his Blackberry and whether White House personnel involved in technology policy really should continue to use their Gmail accounts to keep up on things with former associates in the corporate community while at work.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on the IRS Scandal]
On Thursday, Republican National Committee chief counsel John Phillippe fired off a letter to the Justice Department inspector general asking for an investigation into “into whether Secretary Clinton violated Department of State policies concerning the use of personal email addresses to conduct government business.”
“I also urge your office to investigate whether Secretary Clinton’s use of a personal email address violated, or caused the Department of State to violate, the requirement to archive emails that are federal records under the Federal Records Act, 44 U.S.C. § 3101 et seq., and associated federal regulations, 36 C.F.R. § 1220 et seq., including specifically 36 C.F.R. § 1236.22,” Phillippe added, before posing a list of questions the RNC, which admittedly is not exactly a neutral party, thinks the inspector general should explore.
The Democrats’ problems with email in the current administration are endemic even without the discovery of Clinton’s, yes, let’s call them “secret emails.” There was, for example, the secret account maintained by former Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Lisa Jackson, who Washington attorney and author Christopher Horner exposed as having a separate email under the name “Richard Windsor,” who, though he did not exist, was nonetheless on the books at EPA as an agency employee.
[GALLERY: Barack Obama Cartoons]
There’s also the ongoing, continually unfolding matter of former Internal Revenue Service official Lois Lerner’s email. First they didn’t exist, then they couldn’t be found and then they were destroyed. And they weren’t backed up. And then, miracle of miracles, after IRS and administration officials told Congress they were probably gone forever, they reappeared. Only now they apparently can’t be read.
In all seriousness, you have to be pretty sophisticated to make as much of a hash of all this as the Obama administration has. It’s as if Clinton, who for a time was a staffer on the House committee considering Richard Nixon’s impeachment, and others serving the president learned a very important lesson from that particular scandal: You can’t be forced to turn over what doesn’t exist. It’s simply a bridge too far to believe this all happened as the result of chance, human error and ignorance of the law.

