Celebrate Washington's Birthday
In every sense of the word, George Washington was a towering figure, standing head and shoulders above most all his contemporaries. He was, as he was eulogized, “first in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his countrymen.” He was not first in line at the white sale or the guy who could help you get the best deal at the lowest price on that new 4 x 4 you’ve had your eye on since last summer.
Next to Christmas, the day once set aside to honor the nation’s first president is the most commercialized on the calendar. Since 1968, when it was “moved” from Feb. 22 to the nearest Monday as part of the so-called “Long Weekend Act," its importance to our national culture has been systematically degraded.
In the 1980s – a time when Congress again exercised its will to add another federal holiday to the official calendar – Washington’s birthday and Lincoln’s birthday were lumped together to become what we now know as Presidents Day, reducing Washington's prominence even further and stripping him of his status as a national icon.
[SEE: 2014: The Year in Cartoons]
It’s hard to argue Washington is as much a part of the national psyche as he once was. His picture no longer hangs in the nation’s public school classrooms as used to be the case. He remains on the dollar bill and the quarter dollar coin but his name is more often used as a pejorative synonym for a dysfunctional, out-of-control federal government than spoken reverently as the founder of our American system.
Little children no longer excitedly repeat the (admittedly apocryphal) story of young George admitting to having chopped down his father’s cherry tree because he could not tell a lie. And they’re more likely to be exposed to his heroic crossing of the Delaware River during the American Revolution in a television spot hawking car insurance than anywhere else.
Consider his contributions. After successful leading the American forces in the war for independence he was offered a kingdom; yet he turned it down, leaving the arena to return his home at Mt. Vernon. He was content to let others form the political structure and leadership of what after nearly a decade of struggle had become the United States of America. But when called upon unanimously by the members of the first Electoral College to serve as president, he accepted their charge. He was the model citizen-statesman that most every one of those who followed him into the nation’s highest office has sought to emulate.
[READ: Forgetting Where We Came From]
Simply put, the cultural forces that define what it means to be an American appear to have gotten over Washington and no longer consider him important. This is somewhat an odd conclusion, but one that fits in quite nicely with the ongoing effort to brand all the Founding Fathers as “dead white European men” whose advice and counsel on how to fashion a country, limit the powers of its government, and over time create the greatest, freest, most prosperous, most generous society on the face of the Earth is no longer needed in this new polyglot of a nation.
We fail to reverse this trend at our own peril. If our history is lost, if the reason this nation came into being is successfully obscured by contemporary academics and activists who would just as soon rewrite the wrongs of our past to increase their power to delegitimize the present then America as we know it will cease to be.
[SEE: Political Cartoons on the Economy]
The solution, of course, is to make sure that is not allowed to happen. There has been some excellent new scholarship about Washington in the last few years, with considerably more to emerge now that the Mt. Vernon Ladies Association has established a Washington presidential library and research facility on the grounds of his home on the banks of the Potomac River. So his place in history will not be allowed to go into that goodnight gently; it will be a fight all the way – and so much the better.
In the meantime there are those among our elected leaders who could advance the caused considerably by assisting in efforts to rebrand the holiday as Washington’s Birthday (with an equally passionate fight over Lincoln to come after the initial battles are won). It is vital to the civic life of the nation and the civic education of future generations that George Washington be branded alone as worthy of study; that he is unique and set apart from all other presidents.
In order for that to happy society needs to place a premium on Washington once again. And there’s no better way to do that than by restoring the status of his birthday as a national holiday honoring him alone, separate and apart from his successors.

