http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2014/12/16/bernard-kerik-should-help-the-us-reform-its-prison-system
Do Prison Reform Right
One of those famous French or Russian social critics masquerading as novelist and nowadays quoted more often than they are read once said something profound about being able to judge the state of a society by the conditions inside its prisons.
If that’s true, then America is in far worse shape than most people believe. The worst of the nation’s penal institutions are gang-infested rat holes where rape, beatings, murder and other forms of physical abuse are rampant and the cons have at least as much to say about what goes on as the guards.
It’s a system worthy of study and needing of improvement. Unfortunately, prison reform is typically not near the top of any politicians list of things to get done, least of all because in most states inmates can’t vote.
[READ: Report: Prison Education Programs Could Save Money]
Fortunately, Congress has started to take an interest in the problem. At the beginning of December it was announced that former Republican Rep. J.C. Watts would be heading up, on behalf of The Urban Institute, a nine-member, bi-partisan, blue-ribbon panel looking at the federal corrections system. Under a congressional mandate, Watts and the other members of the commission, The Charles Colson Task Force on Federal Corrections, have been charged with developing practical, data-driven recommendation that will improve conditions inside the federal prison system and which could serve as models for reform in the states.
“The time is ripe for federal prison reform,” Watts said in a release. “Our blue-ribbon panel harnesses the expertise of some of the brightest justice policy minds in the country, including criminal justice leaders who have been working to safely reduce corrections populations in their home states. Together we will build on current momentum for improving efficiencies in the federal prison system and reducing its social and financial costs in a way that’s grounded in data and consistent with public safety.”
One person who isn’t on the commission (but probably should be) and to whom the members and staff should work closely is former New York City Police Commissioner Bernard Kerik who has, shall we say, a unique point of view on these issues.
[READ: Break the Prison to Poverty Pipeline]
Before becoming New York’s 40th police commissioner Kerik – who was one a beat cop in Manhattan and a jail guard in New Jersey – was responsible for a series of significant and meaningful reforms at the city’s infamous Rikers Island prison while serving as head of the Department of Corrections. With him in command, the city achieved historic improvements in the quality of prison life and a considerable reduction in violence among the prison population.
Kerik’s meteoric rise to prominence in the law enforcement community came to a crashing halt after he was found guilty primarily of having made false statements to investigators checking into his background after President George W. Bush nominated him to lead the U.S. Department of Homeland Security For that offense, he served close to 18 months in the federal prison system.
[READ: Smoking Officially Banned in Prisons]
“This could be one of the most important federal prison studies undertaken since the early 1980s when the federal prison population was 25,000,” Kerik told me in an interview. “Today its population is close to 220,000, and is a system that is fraught with fraud, waste and abuse, and lacks real life improvement programs, and incentives for good and model behavior. With an appropriate efficiency and accountability program, the [Federal Bureau of Prisons] could achieve close to a $1 billion annual savings. Hopefully, the House and Senate Judiciary and Justice Department will take seriously, their findings and recommendations.”
Indeed, and hopefully the Colson Commission and its chairman will take seriously the recommendations Kerik has to offer. He knows the prison system inside and out, both figuratively and literally. Having paid his debt to society – a much smaller debt, by the way, than the people of New York and the nation owed to him thanks to his steadfast leadership of the NYPD on 9/11 and in the days afterwards – his contributions to the cause of prison reform, which is just one step down the road toward an overhaul of the entire federal criminal justice system to restore fairness, balance and equity to the pursuit of justice, could be vital and should be given a fair hearing.
