The Never-Ending Nixon Wars
It is astonishing and still very characteristically American than a long ago political scandal still generates as much heat and light as Watergate.
It’s been 40 years since President Richard Nixon was forced from office in disgrace. And yet, even with the passage of so much time and so many of the principals involved, it is hard to believe the general public retains its fascination with the events surrounding what history records as a bungled second-rate break-in whose ramifications shook the nation’s corridors of power.
Two recent events confirm the nation’s continuing fascination with Watergate, the first being the passing at the age of 93 of Ben Bradlee, the journalistic giant who oversaw The Washington Post’s take down of the Nixon administration.
Bradlee told me in the mid-1980s that Nixon’s resignation was the most significant news event of his lifetime – a period that included the advent of the atomic age, the assassination of President John F. Kennedy and mankind’s first, tentative steps off the plant and on to the moon.
[SEE: Cartoons on Congress]
Backed to the hilt by then-Post publisher Katherine Graham, Bradlee allowed two unknown reporters by the name of Woodward and Bernstein to pursue a story that most national news organizations thought not worth covering. In the end, he was proven right – and everyone else wrong – by Nixon’s resignation.
Contemporary historians, however, are looking at the events that comprise Watergate and the way it was covered with fresh eyes. Some, apparently including Bradlee himself if one of his biographers is to be believed, question, for example, whether there really was a “Deep Throat,” a source for Woodward of much of the damaging information that bedeviled the Nixon White House as the story unfolded.
Whether former deputy FBI director Mark Felt really was “Deep Throat” – or whether there was a “Deep Throat” at all – is a question that will probably never be resolved to everyone’s satisfaction. Woodward says he was, but, as people delve more deeply into the story of how the story was covered, questions about inconsistencies have arisen, leading to speculation that Woodward might have had other unnamed, high-level sources inside the executive branch, including former Nixon Chief of Staff Gen. Alexander Haig. Some people, apparently, will never be satisfied.
The second occurred Saturday during a panel at the Texas Book Festival when former Nixon White House Counsel John Dean found himself on the receiving end of a barrage of questions organized (and in one case asked) by Roger Stone, a former Republican Party operative and 1972 Nixon campaign staffer.
[READ: Ben Bradlee's Death Heralds the Final Curtain for Camelot]
Both men have books out about Nixon. Dean, who purports to have listened to all the taped conversations about Watergate involving the former president, has published " The Nixon Defense: What He Knew and When He Knew It." Stone, who has become something of – to borrow a term of campaign tactics – a one man “truth squad” on the subject, has his own book, " Nixon's Secrets: The Rise, Fall, and Untold Truth about the President, Watergate, and the Pardon," reflecting what his research indicates the Watergate scandal was really all about.
Not surprisingly, the two men have widely divergent views. It appears Dean, who has written a number of books critical of conservatives since re-entering public life, holds to the view that the scandal was the almost inevitable outcome of a presidency headed by a small-minded man who was not really as smart or as politically savvy as he is now given credit for being. To Dean, Watergate was the product of Nixon’s deep-seated need to engage in hard knuckle politics so the world would think him “tough,” the self-image he wished to portray.
Stone, on the other hand, believes the downfall of only the second man in U.S. history to appear on five national tickets was orchestrated by Nixon’s enemies within the government itself, who were fearful he would reveal what is now commonly understood to be the CIA’s involvement with organized crime during the Kennedy administration to assassinate Cuban dictator Fidel Castro. As to the break in, Stone believes it was ordered or at least approved by Dean as part of a plan to retrieve embarrassing, perhaps even incriminating, information pertaining to Dean himself and the woman he eventually married that was kept in a desk inside the headquarters of the Democratic National Committee.
[SEE: Republican Party Cartoons]
To call the interaction between the two men “hostile” is to be kind; at one point, Dean seemed to suggest he and Stone would eventually met to settle the entire issue not on a field of honor but in a court of law.
Fortunately the whole thing was televised on C-SPAN, so people can watch and judge for themselves. In the interim, with by some estimates just about a tenth of the Nixon tapes released to the public, it is inevitable that our understanding of the actions and motivations of the nation’s 37th president will be assessed and reassessed for many years to come. A complex man if nothing else, he may never be fully understood by the historians and biographers who attempt to put a label on him. Even with his resignation, however, it is indisputable that he was and will likely always be one of America’s most significant presidents, one whose action’s had among the most far-ranging consequences of any man to occupy the Oval Office.

