http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2014/09/27/obamas-latte-salute-insults-the-military-blame-bush
A Double Latte With a Side of Blaming Bush
With everything else going on in the world, President Barack Obama’s now-infamous “latte salute” to his official Marine guard, delivered coffee cup in hand, didn’t seem worthy of comment.
It’s a small thing, perhaps indicative of his true feelings about the military or his lack of concern for protocol, perhaps not – but not really the kind of thing that should inspire a robust debate among Americans of good will, especially at a time when Christians are being beheaded in the Middle East by the Islamic State group and U.S. troops are being put in harm’s way to try and stop it. There’s so much else going on in the country and the world that is important that one clumsily delivered salute shouldn’t have generated much more than a “what do you expect?” kind of shrug from people who didn’t like it.
[SEE: Cartoons on President Obama]
Then some bright young mind – apparently working at one of the Democratic political committees – had the idea to try and show up the people who were complaining about the “grande gaffe” by circulating a picture of former President George W. Bush doing, what must have been in the mind of the person who thought it up, the same thing. That crossed the line for a number of reasons.
First, Bush was and is a square shooter and no one doubts his respect for members of the U.S. military. In as much as you can tell from the body language in the still shot that is now a ubiquitous presence on the Internet, the 43rd president – his right hand free from encumbrance – is awkwardly trying to “do the right thing” even though he is holding his Scots Terrier Barney in his arms.
Of course Bush served in the military so it may be he simply knows better. Obama’s body language communicates a different attitude, however, one that is almost contemptuous because he makes no effort at all to transfer the coffee cup to his empty left hand before exiting the helicopter. A salute is a sign of respect, and, by acting as he did, the president showed none.
[READ: The Absurd Obama Coffee Cup Controversy]
The second reason the issue is now ripe for comment is those paying careful attention will recognize the response as yet another attempt by the Obamaphiles to “blame Bush.” They are obsessed, perhaps dangerously so, with the 43rd president of the United States and cannot resist any opportunity to take a metaphorical shot at him. It’s a refrain that is not only tiresome after six years of them playing it, it has become as grating as having to listen to the elevator music version of “Stairway to Heaven” over and over again while stuck between floors for two hours.
The president has multiple public personalities, a fact comedians Key & Peele lampoon brilliantly in this clip from their television show but, he and his people have still not figured out after almost six years that the way to act “presidential” is to take responsibility for what you do and stop blaming your predecessors every time you make a mistake, even an innocent one like the latte salute.
