http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/665678/s/43d5fe64/sc/17/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Ccompetitions0Cserie0Ea0C114380A0A70CFabio0ECannavaro0Ecase0Emay0Ehave0Eripple0Eeffect0Bhtml/story01.htm
Fabio Cannavaro case may have ripple effect
By Jim White
8:50PM GMT 26 Feb 2015
There may be many reasons we can think of to sentence Fabio Cannavaro to 10 months in prison. Anyone who saw him blinking in the studio lights as he struggled to penetrate Adrian Chiles’s accent during the World Cup in Brazil would suggest he could be reasonably prosecuted for fraudulent impersonation of an English-speaking football pundit.
An entire generation of centre-forwards might, too, wish to see him behind bars for crimes against attacking play during his time as the world's most parsimonious defender, a magnificently destructive influence whose refusal to yield earned him the nickname The Berlin Wall. While the more bitter among us could cheerfully see him incarcerated for simply displaying unfair levels of cool.
But the fact is, the man who lifted the World Cup in 2006 was sent down for a wholly unexpected transgression: he took a dip with a woman in a swimming pool. What’s more it was his own pool, sited in the grounds of his expansive villa near Naples. And the woman was his wife. Even if he had gone in wearing the wrong coloured wrist band, that seems an extraordinarily draconian punishment.
As it happens, the issue here runs rather deeper than Cannavaro’s deep end. The great Juventus and Real Madrid defender has been under investigation for some time about tax returns from his company Fd Services, through which payments for his commercial work are channelled. State prosecutors claim that the company owes €1 million in unpaid corporation tax, regional charges and VAT. In an economy in urgent need of civic funds, this is no small amount. It is, for instance, enough to maintain Silvio Berlusconi’s bunga bunga habit for a week at least.
As part of their investigation, tax inspectors seized Cannavaro’s Neapolitan retreat. They then sought an order preventing him from gaining any access to it, presumably to prevent him from attempting to change any records that may be held there. What he cannot have expected was that the edict extended to his pool. Unless, of course, he keeps his computers in the changing room. Even so, when he and his wife went for a swim there recently on a trip home from China, where he is coaching Guangzhou Evergrande, they were deemed to be in breach of the terms of the seizure and thus in contempt of court. A custodial sentence was the inevitable outcome. Which seems a hefty price to pay for a few constitutional lengths.
Cannavaro given 10-month jail sentence
Sacchi: Too many 'blacks' in Italian youth teams
Fabio Cannavaro cleared over drugs test
Milan unveil stadium plan inspired by Emirates
As yet, Cannavaro has not been locked up. The sentence has been suspended while an appeal is heard. So he has not been obliged to explain to his charges in China that he won’t be taking training on Monday, or Tuesday or indeed any time for the rest of the season and beyond. But if his lawyers fail in the attempt to have the judgment over-ruled, then the football team at Naples prison is about to be bolstered by the most significant piece of inmate transfer business since Peter Storey had a season ticket at the Scrubs in the Seventies.
But behind Cannavaro’s inconvenience is a more significant fact about the modern game. The concept of tax appears to be something with which many of our superstar footballers struggle. In this country, nearly 100 players, including Steven Gerrard and Wayne Rooney, face huge demands for retrospective tax after becoming involved in a scheme centred on investment in movie making. While you would have thought earning well over £100,000 every week might reduce the urgency of finding tax savings, it seems very unlikely that Gerrard and Rooney spent their down time from training scouring the internet for ways to pay the Inland Revenue less than they are expected to do. They did so because they were advised by their people (all top players have people). Prosecuting people, however, does not garner the attention tax inspectors would hope for. Going after the names sends signals.
Which is why Cannavaro has been pursued so aggressively in his homeland; there is an element in his prosecution of making an example of him, a demonstration that even the nation’s most gilded figures are not beyond the legal requirement to pay their dues. If they can take down a national hero, then no one claiming that their bus fare was a legitimate business expense is safe.
The Inland Revenue, given some of their recent failures in rather urgent need of a public validation of their powers of investigation, will be watching closely. Frankly, given what has happened to one the game’s true greats over in Italy, some of the Premier League’s leading lights might be advised to be careful the next time they plunge into their own deep end.
