http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569879/s/385eb53c/sc/10/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Csurfing0C10A70A88160CIn0Epictures0EAerial0Ephotos0Eof0Esurfers0Eriding0EBotany0EBays0Ebig0Ewaves0Enear0ESydney0Bhtml/story01.htm
In pictures: Aerial photos of surfers riding Botany Bay's big waves near Sydney
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569879/s/36d12059/sc/17/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cmen0Cactive0C10A6220A70A0CWhat0Eits0Elike0Eto0Eride0Ethe0Eworlds0Ebiggest0Ewave0Bhtml/story01.htm
What it’s like to ride 'the world’s biggest wave'
By Theo Merz
8:32AM GMT 07 Feb 2014
Comments
Andrew Cotton might have ridden the world’s biggest wave this week, but he is as laid back about it as you would hope from a surfer. “I didn’t go there to break a record, I just wanted to surf,” the 34-year-old plumber says of his trip to Nazaré in Portugal.
The previous world record of a 78ft-wave was set in Nazaré by Hawaiian surfer Garrett McNamara two years ago, and last year a Brazilian was almost drowned there trying to beat this. Cotton had been to the area several times before – he was part of the team that helped McNamara out to his own giant wave – but had never come close to claiming the record himself.

“The week before I went out I was tracking the swell all the time,” Cotton says from the home he shares with his wife and two young children in Braunton, Devon. “I could see there was a storm coming and it wasn’t just Portugal that was going to be good, there was a possibility it could hit Ireland or France as well - so I was checking travel arrangements for all three places right up to the last minute.”
He arrived in Nazaré with a team of four other surfers, including McNamara, on Saturday to find the storm had brought the sea right up to the town’s streets, causing “carnage”. But for big-wave hunters these were ideal conditions and they were out on the water early the next morning.
Big wave riders
Surfer takes on record 100ft wave
How are 100ft waves made?
Surfers fight it out in Hawaii for $100,000 prize
“The picture of one surfer going down a wave doesn’t represent the preparation you have to do,” says Cotton, who has been surfing since he was eight and worked in a surfboard factory before training as a plumber. “With waves that size you have to be dragged up on a jet ski. We had a jet ski I could use, a safety jet ski and a backup jet ski – these are serious conditions so you need back up for the back up plans.
Andrew Cotton has been surfing since the age of eight (Photo: Mark Wanger Rip'n'Snap)
“After about an hour in the water, Garrett [McNamara] pulled me up onto this wave,” Cotton explains. “I could see it was huge but I wasn’t even thinking it could be the biggest ever. When I was at the top there was fear and anxiety but I put those feelings into place and got on with what I’m trained to do.
“When I surf in Devon I’m normally moving at around 10 or 15 miles an hour, but here I could tell it was closer to 40. When you’re moving that fast and the water’s bumpy it’s much harder to control. I knew that if I made a stupid mistake and lost my balance at the top of that wave it would have been horrific – I just focused and let the adrenalin do some of the work.
“It seemed like I was riding it for minutes but it was probably only a few seconds. Eventually it dawned on me that no matter how fast I was going I wasn’t going to get away from the avalanche behind me. Before I got to the bottom the wave just crashed onto me. There was full-on impact through my whole body and I was getting knocked around up, down, left and right.
“I had a custom flotation vest under my wetsuit, with Co2 canisters and a pull-cord to make it inflate. It’s only for emergencies really but when the wave hit, I thought, ‘I don’t even want to know how deep this is going to take me’ so I pulled it straight away and it dragged me up.”
Cotton and his team stayed in the water for a further three hours, but only caught one other wave. When they got out for lunch Cotton was feeling deflated, having no idea the wave he did catch looked like it might be as high as 80ft. It was only when he was approached by a photographer travelling with the group (who are the subjects of an Epic TV web documentary called The Hunt for the Biggest Wave), that he realised the scale of what he had ridden.
Now he has to wait for the Billabong XXL Global Big Wave Awards in California in May to find out whether he really has broken McNamara’s record, won $10,000 in prize money and been brought a step closer to his goal of becoming a pro-surfer. In the meantime, he’ll be on the hunt for ever bigger waves.
“With mountain climbing, you do the biggest mountain and that’s it. But with this, it’s the ocean, it’s Mother Nature. You always have to be on your game because there could be a bigger one next weekend.”
