http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568580/s/42bcf010/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ctennis0Caustralianopen0C113711660CRafael0ENadal0Ethrashed0Eby0ETomas0EBerdych0Eat0EAustralian0EOpen0Bhtml/story01.htm
Rafael Nadal thrashed by Tomas Berdych at Australian Open
By Jonathan Liew, in Melbourne
6:12AM GMT 27 Jan 2015
Comments
Rafael Nadal is out of the Australian Open. The 14-time Grand Slam champion lost his quarter-final to No 7 seed Tomas Berdych in three punishing sets: 6-2, 6-0, 7-6. It was Nadal’s heaviest defeat at a major for more than five years, and Berdych’s first victory over him in 18 attempts.
Nadal appeared to be struggling physically for most of the match, and was blown away in the first two sets by Berdych in just an hour. The third set was closer. Nadal dug in, appeared to be moving a little more freely, and tried to keep the points short.
But after squandering two match points at 6-5, Berdych took control of the tie-break and closed it out 7-5 to break one of the longest losing streaks in the history of professional tennis. He will face either Andy Murray or Nick Kyrgios in Thursday’s semi-final.
“I set up my plan pretty well and stuck with that all the way through the three sets,” Berdych said. “I was expecting a very tough battle, but I was ready for everything.”
The main talking point will naturally be Nadal’s ongoing fitness struggles, having played only eight matches since June because of an injury to his right wrist, followed by appendix surgery in November. But nothing should detract from a glorious afternoon for Berdych. Long regarded as one of the most talented players on the tour without a Grand Slam title to his name, he did virtually everything right here: playing aggressively, finding the corners and serving well.
Murray v Berdych: as it happened
Murray v Kyrgios: as it happened
Murray happy to play the role of villain
Murray tipped as favourite
In particular, he climbed all over the Nadal serve, which was a phantom of its usual quality. In the first two sets, Nadal did not win a single point on his second serve, and not all that many on his first either. Appearing restricted, stretching his back between points and massaging his thigh between games, Nadal nevertheless did not call the trainer at any point, and characteristically refused to use his injury as an excuse.
“No, I am feeling OK,” he said. “I didn’t play with the right intensity, with the right rhythm. The opponent played better than me. That’s sport. It’s obvious I needed something more to be competitive. I made him play very easy. You cannot expect to win matches in the quarter-final of a Grand Slam playing like that.”
Nadal rallied in the third set, enjoying break points on the Berdych serve and briefly igniting hopes of a comeback. But Berdych remained resolute, despite the weight of history upon him. One was reminded of the late Vitas Gerulaitis, who on finally beating Jimmy Connors after 16 straight defeats, announced: “Let that be a lesson to you all. Nobody beats Vitas Gerulaitis 17 times in a row.”
Berdych’s victory would appear to open up the draw for Murray, who plays the home favourite Kyrgios at 8.15am UK time. Having been drawn in the same half as Nadal and Roger Federer, Murray will now have to face neither. But you underestimate Berdych at your peril, especially in form like this, and Murray will be familiar with the Czech’s coach Dani Vallverdu, a former member of his own coaching team.
Berdych praised the influence of Vallverdu. “I’ve been really happy with how we work together so far, but the good thing is I am already able to execute the things on the court,” he said. “It works well. We set up a great plan for today and it worked, so what could be better?”
Meanwhile, Nadal was asked whether things might have been different had he managed to clinch the third set tie-break. “If doesn’t exist in sport,” he replied. “If never comes. You have to do it. That’s sport. I lost.”
Andy Murray v Tomas Berdych, Australian Open semi-final: live
