http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568580/s/3f36c04b/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ctennis0Crafaelnadal0C111473980CRafael0ENadal0Eto0Eplay0Eon0Ein0EShanghai0Edespite0Eappendicitis0Eas0EAndy0EMurray0Egoes0Ethrough0Bhtml/story01.htm
Rafael Nadal to play on in Shanghai despite appendicitis as Andy Murray goes through
By Simon Briggs, Tennis Correspondent
7:50PM BST 07 Oct 2014
Comments
Rafael Nadal’s dicey fitness record is often blamed on his ferociously intense style of play, but his latest mishap – a diagnosis of appendicitis – must go down as a case of unusually bad luck.
Nadal still plans to take the court on Wednesday in Shanghai despite the condition, explaining that antibiotics are keeping a lid on things for now.
“I am not going to go for surgery,” the Spaniard said on Tuesday. “That’s great news for me today. That’s why I’m here practising, and trying to play tomorrow. But obviously I’m not in the best condition.”
In the longer term, there is a good chance that Nadal – who is due to face fellow Spanish left-hander Feliciano Lopez on the stadium court – could have his appendix removed when he returns home after this tournament. That would probably end his 2014 season, which has already been badly interrupted by a three-month lay-off caused by a wrist injury.
“My idea is take it out,” said Nadal, who was diagnosed at the local hospital on Saturday after experiencing pain in his abdomen. “But you can imagine that I didn’t [think] much about that yet.
Murray set to end adidas sponsorship deal
Djokovic hails 'greatest ever final'
Murray beaten by Djokovic at China Open
Nadal Snr takes issue with female Davis Cup coach
Nadal's coach criticised for 'sexist' comments
Federer agrees to replace Nadal in Indian league
“I am here in Shanghai. I just want to try. Then when I go back home, I will talk about the situation with my doctor.”
Should Nadal opt for an operation, there will be knock-on effects on the Barclays ATP World Tour Finals in London, with the tournament organisers already fretting over the possibility that Novak Djokovic might withdraw to attend the birth of his first child.
If either of the world’s top two players failed to show up, that would mean a reprieve for the man standing just outside the favoured eight – and for now the ninth position in the race is occupied by Andy Murray.
The permutations are complex, as the No 7, Tomas Berdych, stands fewer than 400 points ahead of the No 11, Grigor Dimitrov, and there are 1,000 points available to the winner both here in Shanghai and in Paris early next month. Whoever makes it to the event at the O₂ in November, this is likely to be a hairline decision.
In the circumstances, it was essential that Murray defeated Teymuraz Gabashvili on Tuesday in his first first-round match at a Masters event since Hamburg – a tournament that does not even exist any more – in the spring of 2008. (The top eight seeds receive byes into the second round.)
Gabashvili may have been a qualifier, and he may have been totally outplayed by Murray in a first set which lasted only 26 minutes, but he does have a hefty forehand, and he came within two points of taking the match to a deciding set before going down 1-6, 5-7.
“He was timing the ball a lot better in the second set and I had to find a way to get through in the end,” said Murray, who spent much of that period complaining to the umpire about Gabashvili’s loud grunting. “It was a good start for me – but there’s still some work to be done.”
Murray will play the Polish beanpole Jerzy Janowicz on Wednesday, for the second time in a week, while the entirety of the world’s top eight will also be in action on an intriguing day of tennis.
One man who has not reached the second round, however, is Italy’s top player Fabio Fognini.
Always temperamental, Fognini lost yesterday against Chuhan Wang, a Chinese wild card ranked No 553, in straight sets and then flicked an obscene gesture at the celebrating fans as he left the court.
