http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/669313/s/44ae0da6/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Ctottenham0Ehotspur0C114886240CHarry0EKane0Esteals0Ethe0Eheadlines0Ebut0EMauricio0EPochettino0Efumes0Eat0ESpurs0Edefensive0Erecord0Bhtml/story01.htm
Harry Kane steals the headlines, but Mauricio Pochettino fumes at Spurs' defensive record
By Matt Law
5:28PM GMT 22 Mar 2015
Comments
As England supporters look forward to adopting Harry Kane as one of their own for the next nine days, Mauricio Pochettino, the Tottenham Hotspur head coach, will use international week to study what is happening at the other end of the pitch.
Kane once again grabbed the headlines against Leicester City by celebrating his senior England call-up with a first Premier League hat-trick. The striker also once again spared the blushes of the Spurs defence, who are alarmingly generous to the opposition.
Pochettino's team have not kept a clean sheet since Jan 31 and allowed bottom-of-the-table Leicester to come back from two goals down and even set up a grandstand finish after Spurs had been handed a late fourth courtesy of Jeff Schlupp.
In the 10 games since shutting out West Bromwich Albion, Spurs have now conceded 20 goals and have let in two more at home than Leicester over the course of the season.
Making the numbers all the more worrying for Pochettino is the fact that Hugo Lloris has been one of the best goalkeepers in the Premier League.
Lloris sustained an early knee injury against Leicester after clashing with team-mate Kyle Walker and has been ruled out of the France games against Brazil and Denmark.
Pochettino insists the defensive problem is collective, but individuals in his back-line are clearly struggling. Right-back Kyle Walker missed eight months through injury and is yet to find anything resembling his best form, while central defender Jan Vertonghen is too easily caught out.
Danny Rose was comfortably Spurs' best defender against Leicester and the left-back has received a late call into the England squad to replace the injured Luke Shaw.
Tottenham are already making moves to cure the problem for next season, setting up a deal to sign Kevin Wimmer from Cologne and joining the list of clubs chasing Southampton on-loan defender Toby Alderweireld.
However, Pochettino knows he needs to find a stop-gap solution for the final eight games if Spurs are to stand any chance of gatecrashing the top four and securing an unlikely Champions League place.
The last two months of the season could also be vital to the futures of Vertonghen and Walker, as Pochettino has proved on plenty of occasions that his decisions are not made on name or reputation. Younes Kaboul and Vlad Chiriches are on their way out.
"We need to speak over the next few weeks about changes that need to be made to the squad, but now is not the moment," Pochettino said.
"Now is the moment to try to improve our play. It's true, I was angry with the defending against Leicester and I am not happy about our record. But it's normal.
"We are a club, a team that people expect a lot from, but in the same way we are a very young team and this is part of the process. It's important to keep calm and analyse, and try to improve our defensive game. We will try to improve that in the next few weeks. This is one thing we need to improve in the future."
Tottenham supporters grew tired of the safety-first approach of Andre Villas-Boas, but Pochettino recognises his side cannot always throw caution to the wind.
Jamie Vardy, Wes Morgan and David Nugent all took advantage of lapses in concentration to give Tottenham a real scare on Saturday.
"We need to be more consistent," Pochettino said. "In the way we play, always, we think to play forward and play in the opposite half and try to score.
"When the game was 2-0 up for us, I remember when we concede the goal 2-1, our full-backs are up and we try to score again. We need to keep this mentality because we are Tottenham, to give our supporters exciting football. But we need to try to get more balance between attacking and defending.
"We are in the process where we find the balance. We are young. I think we have a very good mentality but, different aspects of the game, we need to improve."
Kane scored two goals in 15 appearances while on loan at Leicester under manager Nigel Pearson in 2013. On Saturday afternoon, the striker had been credited with two goals in less than 15 minutes against the Foxes and left the pitch with the match ball. "He was two years younger for a start with us," Pearson said.
"You've got to put it into context that we were not in a good run at that point. It's never easy for a young player on loan to come into a side that's not on the top of their game and have the impact that you may want.
"He did very well in his time with us, but I don't suppose anybody at that point would have seen the rise he's had. You could see very good technical ability, he's a very good lad as well. But you know, his rise this season has been exceptional, and good luck to him."
