http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/669313/s/44a6d315/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cleicester0Ecity0C11487920A0CLeicester0ECity0Enews0ENigel0EPearson0Eblasts0Ereferee0EMike0EDean0Eas0Earrogant0Eafter0Epenalty0Edecision0Bhtml/story01.htm
Leicester City news: Nigel Pearson blasts referee Mike Dean as 'arrogant' after penalty decision
By Matt Law, at White Hart Lane
6:56PM GMT 21 Mar 2015
Comments
Leicester City manager Nigel Pearson has risked landing himself in hot water with the Football Association after branding referee Mike Dean "one of the most arrogant men I have ever met."
Pearson was furious that Dean awarded Tottenham Hotspur a penalty while the scores were level in Leicester's 4-3 defeat at White Hart Lane.
Dean paused before pointing to the spot after Tottenham's Danny Rose had gone down under a challenge from David Nugent. Harry Kane scored the resulting penalty to complete his hat-trick and halt Leicester's comeback.
Asked whether he had spoken to Dean about the penalty decision, Pearson said: "What's the point? What is the point of talking to him? He is one of the most arrogant men I have ever met. There we are.
"Unfortunately again, it's another dubious decision. The arrogance of the man at times is frightening. I just find it difficult to accept that we have to deal with yet another contentious decision that has not gone our way.
"It is two players colliding. Nuge will be the first to admit he should have probably dealt with it a little bit earlier.
"The length of time it took to actually give the decision, and I am led to believe nobody else's opinion was actually involved, he took that length of time to decide two players colliding in the box is a penalty.
"I just find it bizarre, that's probably the nicest thing I can say. We're in a situation where there is a lot of talk about the spirit of the game, players going around referees. There has to be an element of fairness.
"I really do feel at the moment that we continue to be short-changed. I am not suggesting, of course, that it is deliberate. But we can't be on the receiving end of so many poor decisions."
