http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568342/s/44ab36d7/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Ccompetitions0Cpremier0Eleague0C114883940CLiverpool0E10EManchester0EUnited0E20Ematch0Ereport0ESteven0EGerrard0Esent0Eoff0Eas0EJuan0EMata0Escores0Etwo0Bhtml/story01.htm
Liverpool 1 Manchester United 2, match report: Steven Gerrard sent off as Juan Mata scores two
By Chris Bascombe
3:35PM GMT 22 Mar 2015
Comments
Steven Gerrard was determined to leave a final mark on English football prior to his summer farewell, but the bruise on Ander Herrera’s ankle was not what he envisaged.
If the enduring image of last season was the Liverpool captain’s slip against Chelsea, a salvage act is required to ensure his stamp on the Manchester United midfielder does not prove equally as significant in the pursuit of Champions League places.
Whether it was a mental aberration or the reflection of an adrenalin overdose as he sat on the bench for 45 minutes, the swiftness of his apology underlined his fear Manchester United may not be caught after what looks a defining Anfield win.
Here was the manifestation of Gerrard’s complex relationship with the most meaningful fixtures. His career is littered with glory and calamity on the biggest occasions; stunning winners and own goals; inspirational comebacks and ruinous backpasses; 30 yard equalisers in the last minute and perplexing dismissals in his first minute; every trophy won except the one he craves most. No Liverpool player has shaken the hand of triumph and felt the kick of catastrophe in such equal measure.
• Gerrard sees red seconds after coming on • Time for Liverpool's captain to say goodbye: What we learnt at Anfield • How the game unfolded
Of Gerrard’s seven red cards for Liverpool, four have come against Manchester United or Everton. It is no coincidence. These fixtures can stir the blood but equally purée the brain, and Gerrard is not used to being unleashed at the halfway point of a gladiatorial battle.
In the efforts to rationalise the 48 seconds between his half-time introduction and red card, you could imagine Gerrard stewing on the Liverpool bench, simmering as the away fans worked through their repertoire about lost titles, boiling point reached as he witnessed every 50-50 challenge go United’s way.
He introduced himself with a ferocious tackle on Juan Mata, and as The Kop rose to applaud the aggression, he followed up with what replays and the subsequent apology confirmed was a stamp on Herrera.
Red mist: Steven Gerrard is sent off less than 30 seconds after coming on
Despite the ire from the home fans, referee Martin Atkinson deserved credit for spotting it and issuing the red card. Providing he does not return on loan next season, this could be an ignominious end to Gerrard’s association with what is ironically described as the Premier League’s ‘glamour’ fixture. It was not the only ugly scene, the video assessors no doubt pencilling in several hours for reviewing duty on Monday morning.
The glee of United’s fans was all too apparent. They already have an extensive discography of tunes dedicated to Liverpool and their captain, and swiftly penned another to add to their playlist.
There were a couple of occasions they lauded the excellence of their own team, too. For all the inevitable focus on Gerrard’s self-destruction, United were already in control and their most accomplished performance to date under Louis Van Gaal was a contributory factor in the home indiscipline. This was the United we have not seen since Sir Alex Ferguson’s retirement - fluent in possession, overpowering in midfield and menacing in attack.
Liverpool could barely get hold of their ball in the first half, the 3-4-3 that has caused such a transformation since their last Premier League defeat suddenly looking flawed.
Did you know Telegraph Sport has a ?

Liverpool have spent the last three months trying to repair the damage of their previous setback against United, taking the plaudits for their style and tactical nous while Van Gaal was said to be stumbling to victories. The contrast between a side in control of their emotions and another playing in a state of frenzy was apparent before Gerrard’s ugly cameo. It was the team in red that was bereft of composure.
“We played them off the pitch in the first half,” said Van Gaal. “We beat them with their own weapons – pressing.”
Van Gaal’s assessment was fair. United looked stronger, quicker and hungrier as they grasped their half-time lead, prompting Rodgers’ swift substitution.
Marouane Fellaini was possessed in the kind of role David Moyes saw the best of him at Everton but mystifyingly never used him at United, an advanced midfield bully bruising the air, the turf and anyone within distance. United’s first diagonal ball to the Belgian was within 10 seconds, Fellaini shrugging off Emre Can - the plan to play on the edge of Liverpool’s penalty area all too apparent.
This was no mere direct action, however. Herrera and Michael Carrick offered the midfield elegance, and Liverpool’s creative energy was subdued to the point of anonymity. At times Carrick looked like an alien presence, a picture of serenity in the midst of havoc. His tranquillity was even more significant as other United players' form deteriorated in the latter stages.
Tough tackle: Steven Gerrard brings down Juan Mata...
The visitors’ opening goal, courtesy of Mata on 14 minutes was fully deserved, pieced together with the kind of high tempo move Van Gaal and United’s followers have been yearning for.
Herrera crafted it, picking out Mata who was enjoying himself against the labouring Alberto Moreno. He finished with aplomb after being sent scurrying into a face-off with Simon Mignolet.
Just as at The Liberty Stadium last Monday, Brendan Rodgers was forced to alter his strategy, switching to a diamond midfield in the hope Philippe Coutinho would find space. After finding a solution after December’s loss at Old Trafford, there is a new problem for Rodgers after this loss to Van Gaal.
...before being sent off for this stamp on Ander Herrera
The 3-4-3 worked better with Sterling upfront rather than Daniel Sturridge, who is either still hunting for fitness or is not as capable of linking the play for midfield runners.
“It was not just the sending-off, we gave them control far too easy,” acknowledged Rodgers.
With 10 men, another tactical reshuffle assisted Liverpool until Mata doubled the advantage with a brilliant volley after linking with substitute Angel Di Maria. It seemed to be a case of damage limitation for the hosts, but Sturridge reduced the deficit on 70 minutes and a missed penalty from Wayne Rooney in injury time made United sweat until the end.
They left Merseyside with a five-point lead, Liverpool’s ambition of stealing fourth now looking suspiciously in need of result against Arsenal in their next fixture.
Volley good: Juan Mata doubles United's lead
Van Gaal showed Rodgers he is not the only one who can find a winning formula at the right time, and the head start United were given by Liverpool at the beginning the season may now be decisive.
In the directors' box, there were two notable observers.
Spot of bother: Wayne Rooney's penalty is saved by Simon Mignolet
A few seats from Pele sat former United manager Ferguson, who must have been thrilled by the sense of recognition.
“This was the moment,” Van Gaal said afterwards, suggesting the last two wins represent a turning point of his reign.
United are looking menacingly better, ensuring the Liverpool’s captain long goodbye must now include one final shot at redemption.
