http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/668943/s/42b105fa/sc/10/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Ceuropean0Erugby0C113688960CJamie0ERoberts0Elands0Efirst0Eblow0Ein0Ebuild0Eup0Eto0ESix0ENations0Eopener0Ebetween0EWales0Eand0EEngland0Bhtml/story01.htm
Jamie Roberts lands first blow in build-up to Six Nations opener between Wales and England
By Tom Cary, at Franklin's Gardens
10:30PM GMT 25 Jan 2015
Comments
If the sight of Tom Wood limping off and Dylan Hartley trudging to the sin-bin barely quarter of an hour into this bizarrely one-sided affair did not give the watching England coaches Andy Farrell and Graham Rowntree a slightly queasy feeling, then the sight of Jamie Roberts leading the French invasion, and George North rampaging about the field in a brave but ultimately futile attempt to inspire a Northampton comeback, should have done the trick.
Roberts picked up the award for man of the match – deservedly so – after the Wales No 12 put in a typically bruising performance in defence and attack, scoring Racing’s bonus-point try and utterly overshadowing his opposite man, Luther Burrell.
Whether he landed a psychological blow ahead of the Six Nations opener at the Millennium Stadium a week on Friday is another question. Will Roberts’s performance relative to Burrell’s so soon before the Cardiff match affect Stuart Lancaster’s midfield selection, or was this simply a day to forget for Northampton and England?
Roberts was typically diplomatic. “Luther plays in a similar mould to myself,” he said. “He is very physical, very direct and he is a dangerous player. Whoever England pick, whether they pick him, [Brad] Barritt, [Billy] Twelvetrees, the Bath lads [Kyle Eastmond and Jonathan Joseph], they have got an embarrassment of riches, really, and it will be a huge match-up.”
Roberts was clearly not interested in generating the same headlines as his Wales head coach, Warren Gatland. The Kiwi launched a couple of verbal barbs last week when he suggested that Lancaster still had little idea of his best starting XV and goaded England to “accept the challenge” of playing under a closed roof, as they men did in 2013, when they were trounced 30-3.
Bath survive to make knockouts
Saracens limp into last eight
Europe means all of Europe, not Anglo-French
Jones retires from Wales duty after Six Nations snub
While Roberts laughed off those comments – “you always expect a little bit of that off Warren. I don’t think I’ve had a campaign where he hasn’t chucked a few grenades in” – he was more forthcoming on the subject of that extraordinary match in 2013. “The game in two weeks has all the ingredients to match, if not better, the game two years ago,” he said.
“That was a special day – I am sure every Welsh fan will agree – and hopefully we will see a repeat of that. It’s World Cup year, they are in our pool, all the factors point towards an epic battle. It is one that every player in Wales desperately wants to be part of, and that starts Monday.”
Roberts warned, though, that while the memories of that day would undoubtedly inspire Wales’s players and fans, they would also do the same for England, perhaps even more so. “You can’t win everything in your career, and those big losses are what motivate you as a player. My experience with Cardiff in 2009 [when Cardiff lost in the semi-final to Leicester in a place-kicking shoot-out after the game finished 26-26], that motivates me hugely to go and win the European Cup.
“In 2009, Ireland came to Cardiff and won the Grand Slam, and certainly that drives me. You never want those feelings again, and England will be a very dangerous team.”
Jim Mallinder, Northampton’s head coach, will certainly hope the pain of defeat inspires his men to an away victory at Clermont in a formidably difficult quarter-final April. This was an abject showing and difficult to rationalise. Northampton had a strong team out and the incentive of a home quarter-final.
Racing, though, were better in all areas. Three tries, two for Argentine flier Juan Imhoff and one for ­Benjamin Lapeyre, in a devastating spell either side of the break killed the game as a contest.
Hartley’s yellow card for illegally tackling a player while on the floor was an unwanted sideshow given all the talk regarding his indiscipline. “I knew the spotlight would be on me,” the England hooker said. “I thought I did everything I could to prepare for the game.” A day to forget for Northampton and England.
