http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569991/s/441ea9e0/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ctennis0C11455750A0CSwitzerlands0Efall0Efrom0Egrace0Ethreatens0Eto0Ethrow0EDavis0ECup0Einto0Efarce0Bhtml/story01.htm
Switzerland's fall from grace threatens to throw Davis Cup into farce
By Simon Briggs
6:16PM GMT 06 Mar 2015
Comments
If falling from grace were an Olympic event, could anyone live with Switzerland’s Davis Cup team? It is hard to remember a title defence, in any sport, getting off to such a catastrophic start before a ball had even been hit.
For much of last season, the Swiss team captain Severin Lüthi had it so easy, you felt like sending him a box of cigars. The trickiest part was talking Roger Federer and Stan Wawrinka into participating in the Davis Cup; after that, Homer Simpson could have managed the training sessions.
Lüthi’s legends powered their way to a final that, despite its one-sidedness, still had the passion and intensity of an epic ballad. The tie was held in Lille, in a football stadium filled with 27,000 flag-waving fans – a world record for an official tennis match. It began with a set of anthems so heartfelt that Jo-Wilfried Tsonga broke down and cried, and finished with Federer sobbing tears of his own after capturing the one significant title that had always eluded him.
But just look at them now, only three months after the lay of Lille was written. Both Federer and Wawrinka have opted out of the competition, and are dropping hints that they may never return. In their absence, the Swiss team that walked out to begin their campaign in Belgium on Friday had all the star power of a school nativity play.
Have a go at these names. Henri Laaksonen, ranked 344 in the world, is Lüthi’s preferred choice, backed up by Michael Lammer (576) and Adrien Bossel (321). They could have had Yann Marti too (the best of the lot at 292), except that he walked out of the camp on Thursday afternoon in fury at being left out of the opening round of singles matches, thus leaving Switzerland a man short for the weekend. Not so easy now, is it Severin?
Thrilling Ward comeback stuns the USA
Spirit of London 2012 helps Murray give GB Davis Cup lead
Murray will lead Davis Cup charge
Ward gunning for another American upset
The story could stand as a metaphor for the Davis Cup itself. Inaugurated in 1900, this grand dame of world sport still claims to be the biggest annual team competition in the world. Yet its credibility has dwindled over the past decade, to the point where football's Community Shield often seems to carry more international prestige.
The Davis Cup’s unique travelling-circus structure is both its beauty and its downfall. On the upside, the partisan home crowds highlight the pugilistic undertones of tennis, a sport too often saddled with a cucumber-sandwiches image. Then there are the varied and often fascinating venues, like the one the US Tennis Association built last year in the San Diego Padres’ baseball stadium.
On the other side of the coin, though, matches often struggle to achieve resonance beyond their immediate locality – a problem accentuated as traditional superpowers have fallen behind the likes of Serbia, Croatia and the Czech Republic.
We can applaud the Eastern Europeans for their extraordinary power-to-size ratio but the Davis Cup is the poorer – literally – for the fact that American sports fans appear to be losing interest. Alarmingly, not a single overseas reporter has travelled to Glasgow this weekend for the 20th instalment of Great Britain versus the United States, a tie that has previously attracted players of the quality of John McEnroe and Jim Courier.
Yes, there are moments when the patient leaps off his sickbed and dances around the room. Not only did Federer make headlines around the world with his November apotheosis, but it took no more than 10 minutes to sell out this “Murrays-on-the-Clyde” tartan fest in Glasgow.
Yet the lifeblood of any sporting event is still the players it attracts, and too many big names are routinely skipping these fascinating weekends in favour of identikit tournaments that offer more rankings points and better money.
Federer, sadly, is no exception. Speaking in Dubai last week, he spoke of the Davis Cup as a “heavy burden” – a commitment that he clearly intends to downgrade, now that he has finally won the damn thing. In the future, it seems that the competition will be seeing rather less of him, and a lot more of Laaksonen et al.
