http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/rugby-league/31928423
Super League: Widnes Vikings 20-16 Hull KR
Paddy Flynn's brace against Hull KR were his first tries of the season
22 March 2015 Last updated at 17:40
Widnes Vikings (14) 20
Tries: Flynn 2, Galea Goals: Owens 4
Hull KR (4) 16
Tries: Cockayne, Salter, Welham Goals: Mantellato 2
Widnes Vikings moved off the bottom of the Super League table with a tense win over Hull Kingston Rovers.
Paddy Flynn and Danny Galea grabbed tries either side of Ben Cockayne's effort for Rovers to help the hosts take a 14-4 lead at the break.
The Vikings twice went close before Flynn grabbed his second try.
Rovers fought back through Liam Salter and Kris Welham, but they failed to find a late score to salvage something from the match.
In a dramatic finish Albert Kelly looked as if he had grabbed the points to level the match, but play was brought back by referee Matthew Thomason for a shoulder charge in the build-up.
Victory for Denis Betts's Vikings was their first in three games and lifted them to 10th in the table, while defeat left Hull KR second from bottom.
The hosts got off to a strong start with Flynn finishing off a superb team move which was worked across field, with the back evading Rovers' defence out wide to step inside and touch down.
With their first meaningful attacking raid, Kelly sent a neat grubber kick through for Cockayne to race on to and dot down before running dead.
An undisciplined showing by the visitors, in which they conceded three consecutive penalties before the half hour, allowed Galea to crash over for a simple score.
Flynn prevented Josh Mantellato from going over for the visitors and another penalty just before the break allowed Jack Owens to tee up his third kick of the afternoon.
The Vikings had two efforts disallowed early in the second half, with Hull KR also denied when Mantellato had an effort chalked off for a forward pass.
From the resulting scrum Flynn broke clear and raced 90 metres to score a try, which Owens converted.
A break by Cockayne set the foundations for Rovers' response and it was Sio who jumped highest to snatch a Terry Campese cross-kick and touch down. Mantellato's kick got his side back to within 10 points.
Just three minutes later, a penalty conceded on the last tackle of a set proved costly for Widnes as their opponents swept upfield and Welham crossed for a converted try to set up a nervy finish.
While Sio threatened up the right and there was drama in the final minute, Widnes managed to resist the onslaught to record their second win of the season.
Widnes coach Denis Betts: "I was worried for most of the second half.
"We kept inviting them back in the game. In the first half we had enough ball, enough field position and enough opportunities to take the game away from them.
"But with (Albert) Kelly, (Terry) Campese and (Ben) Cockayne we know they've got players that can do something out of nothing.
"I thought Aaron Heremaia was outstanding. His energy and enthusiasm has been great for us."
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Chester on Widnes v Hull KR
Hull KR head coach Chris Chester: "I thought the effort was there, but I don't think we deserved to get anything out of the game.
"Our first-half performance was a long way off and we got our just rewards. But we didn't really get any field position.
"Our effort to get back in the game when we went 20-4 behind was fantastic. We gave ourselves a really good chance of winning."
Widnes Vikings: Hanbury; Flynn, Marsh, Phelps, Owens; Gore, Mellor; Dudson, Heremaia, Gerrard, Clarkson, Galea, Leuluai.
Replacements: Tickle, Manuokafoa, Kavanagh, Joseph.
Hull KR: Cockayne; Mantellato, Welham, Salter, Sio; Campese, Kelly; Walker, Lunt, Burke, McCarthy, Blair, Larroyer.
Replacements: Horne, Boudebza, Green, Donaldson.
Attendance: 5,273
Referee: Matthew Thomason (RFL)
Catch up with Ski Sunday on the BBC
How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign
