http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/612402/s/44a0c9dd/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Cboxing0Cmayweather0Evs0Epacquiao0C114865590CFloyd0EMayweather0Ev0EManny0EPacquiao0EMoney0Eteam0Ereject0E5m0Efine0Efor0Edirty0Edrug0Etest0Eand0Einsist0Eon0Efour0Eyear0Eban0Bhtml/story01.htm
Floyd Mayweather v Manny Pacquiao: 'Money' team reject $5m fine for 'dirty' drug test and insist on four-year ban
By Gareth A Davies, Boxing Correspondent
6:22PM GMT 20 Mar 2015
Comments
Manny Pacquiao’s business manager has revealed Floyd Mayweather refused to sign an agreement to impose a $5 million penalty if either fighter were to submit a failed drug test ahead of their May 2 showdown in Las Vegas.
Mayweather's team have insisted that they would want the US Anti-Doping Agency, who are conducting out of competition random drug-testing, to follow the WADA code of a four-year ban for any athlete who tests positive for PEDs.
That seems reasonable, but Pacquiao's advisor Michael Koncz told the LA Times: “I’m a little puzzled and a little dismayed that they wouldn’t agree to something this simple.”
Pacquiao and his trainer, Freddie Roach
However, Mayweather’s advisor, Leonard Ellerbe countered that it was "a lame attempt to generate some publicity.”
Last week, USADA confirmed the fighters have agreed to submit to random, unannounced blood and urine tests that will search for performance-enhancing substances such as testosterone, Human Growth Hormone and energy-boosting EPO. USADA also praised both sides for agreeing to the testing.
The deal with USADA calls for expedited processing and actions by the Nevada State Athletic Commission to halt the fight if a positive test occurs.
Ellerbe said: “We have no plan on limiting the liability and damages if Manny tested positive,” Ellerbe said. “They must be worried if they’re bringing this up. Essentially, what they’re trying to do is put a $5 million price tag if Manny tested positive. It’s awfully suspicious to me.
Pacquiao in training
“If you’re supposed to be the manager, you need to read the language in the contract before you let your fighter sign. That’s why, in my opinion, Michael Koncz is the biggest idiot in all of boxing. He obviously didn’t read the agreement before he had his client sign the agreement.
"It will cost Manny a lot more than some $5 million if he comes up positive.”
Pacquiao and undefeated pound-for-pound No 1 Mayweather have already undergone two random drug tests each, conducted by medical officials from the United States Anti Doping Agency.
Pacquiao was first tested while training at the Pan Pacific Park and then again at the Wild Card Gym in Los Angeles, while Mayweather is believed to have been tested at his home and at his gym in Las Vegas.
Hopkins: Mayweather will defeat Pacquiao through 'boxing IQ and skills'
Ring legend Bernard Hopkins believes Mayweather may be knocked down early in the fight on May 2 but will go on to defeat Pacquiao on controversial split decision through 'boxing IQ and skills'.
“The first six rounds you’re going to get your money’s worth. Manny Pacquiao has had more early round knockouts in the past five years than Mayweather has had in the past 10 years," he told Boxing Insider. "I see Mayweather being stalked early, getting angles from the southpaw and being knocked down one or two times."
“Floyd Mayweather Jr. will have to dig deep and go to the well on this one, but I believe because of his boxing IQ and skills, he will pull out a close split or maybe controversial decision.”
Mayweather sparring partners include Zab Judah and Demarcus Corley
Alex Ariza, once Pacquiao's strength and conditioning coach, but now with Mayweather, has revealed that the American has been sparring with former opponents Demarcus Corley, the ex-IBF world champion, and Zab Judah, also a former IBF welterweight champion.
Judah and Corley both fought and lost to Mayweather. By some accounts, Mayweather has as many as 10 sparring partners.
Ariza said that Mayweather “is looking very good and despite being only the third week, he is smooth.”
