http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/571918/s/3fc9303f/sc/1/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cserbia0C11184770A0CSerbia0Emust0Eplay0Enext0Etwo0Ematches0Ebehind0Eclosed0Edoors0Eafter0Edrone0Eincident0Eagainst0EAlbania0Esparks0Emass0Ebrawl0Bhtml/story01.htm
Serbia must play next two matches behind closed doors after drone incident against Albania sparks mass brawl
By Ben Rumsby
10:48AM BST 24 Oct 2014
Comments
Serbia have been ordered to play their next two European Championship qualifying home matches behind closed doors following the violence that led to the abandonment of last week's clash with Albania.
Uefa's disciplinary committee sanctioned both teams over the shameful scenes sparked when a radio-controlled drone carrying a politically-inflammatory flag was flown over the Partizan Stadium in Belgrade.
Serbia were awarded a 3-0 win for the Group I encounter over Albania's refusal to retake the field, after the game was suspended by Premier League referee Martin Atkinson, but that was cancelled out by a three-point deduction.
Both sides were fined €100,000 (£78,000).
They were given leave to appeal, which each later confirmed they would do.
Serbia v Albania abandoned following brawl
Albania players 'physically attacked' by stewards
Drone brawl ends Serbia v Albania match
Why Serbia v Albania had to be abandoned
The Serbian Football Association (FSS) said: "We have the impression that the FSS is a constant target of newly-discovered punitive measures, for as far as we know it is an unprecedented measure to deduct points from a team who have at the same time been awarded a walkover win."
Artan Hajdari, a lawyer representing the Albanian FA, said: "We shall strongly attack the decision legally. Our fight will continue. Our arguments are very strong and we should be given the three points."
It was the visiting side's response to Serbia player Stefan Mitrović's attempts to seize the 'Greater Albania' flag from the low-flying drone that sparked the extraordinary violence 10 days ago.
The Albanian FA was charged by Uefa with "the display of an illicit banner", which it was claimed was orchestrated by the brother of the country's prime minister.
He categorically denied being behind the surreal stunt and European football's governing body could find no evidence to ascertain who was to blame.
The FSS last week accused Albania of orchestrating a deliberate "terrorist action" to force the abandonment of the match as it sought to deflect blame for its latest footballing shame.
It issued an extraordinary 1,400-word statement demanding that Serbia be awarded a 3-0 win for the fractious fixture, evoking memories of its risible response to the racist abuse directed at England's Danny Rose during an Under-21 match in Krusevac two years earlier.
Albania's players felt justified in refusing to resume the game, which Atkinson suspended in the 41st minute, after being attacked by Serbia fans and stewards. One said they feared for their lives.
Last Tuesday's violence represented the biggest footballing scandal yet to engulf Serbia, which will now be forced to play next month's qualifier against Denmark and next September's encounter with Armenia behind closed doors.
As well as the FSS being twice fined for the racist chanting of its fans in U21 matches against England, it was also punished with a 3-0 defeat over the violence that erupted during Serbia's Euro 2012 qualifier in Italy four years ago.
Relations between Serbia and Albania have been fragile over Kosovo - a former Serbian province - and the ethnic Albanian minority in southern Serbia, who often demand more autonomy.
However, neither of the countries' football associations asked Uefa to keep them apart in the Euro 2016 qualifying draw - something it did do with Spain and Gibraltar, as well as Russia and Ukraine.
The governing body would have separated Serbia and Albania had there been an ongoing armed conflict between them or the absence of normal diplomatic relations.
Ironically, last Tuesday's violence erupted just days before Edi Rama was due to become the first Albanian president to visit Serbia for 68 years, a trip he subsequently postponed.
After the draw was made, each association asked Uefa to sanction the banning of away supporters at both group games, something it agreed to facilitate.
It also emerged last week that the Football League had reported drone invasions during matches this season to the Civil Aviation Authority, which was investigating.
