http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604265/s/3cf85777/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Ccommonwealthgames0C10A9974290CScottish0Ewrestling0Etwins0EFiona0Eand0EDonna0ERobertson0Ecould0Ego0Eup0Eagainst0Eeach0Eother0Eat0ECommonwealth0EGames0E20A140Bhtml/story01.htm
Scottish wrestling twins Fiona and Donna Robertson could go up against each other at Commonwealth Games 2014
By Ben Bloom, in Glasgow
11:14AM BST 29 Jul 2014
Comments
Like many twins Donna and Fiona Robertson share more than the average sibling bond. Born six minutes apart, the Scottish sisters have not strayed far from each other in their 45 years.
They live together, they work together and they train together. When one of them took up judo during their formative years, the other decided to follow suit. When they grew tired of judo and switched to wrestling seven years ago for a new challenge, they did so as a pair. Where one twin goes, the other follows.
But there comes a time when being sisters counts for nothing. And the 2014 Commonwealth Games is that time.
Competing in the women’s 48kg competition in Glasgow, Donna and Fiona were beaten in their respective quarter finals but could still face each other for a chance of claiming a bronze medal.
“If we draw each other, we know that someone is going to lose but at least someone is going to win,” Donna told The Scotsman earlier this year.
From genocide to the Games: Rwanda's road race hopeful
Commonwealth Scottie dogs 'disrespect Muslims'
'London Olympics food way better than Glasgow'
Gemili lays down marker with silver
Gemili claims 100m silver
Gemili: This is the start for Britain
“We both know what it is like to lose and what it is like to win so we are always there for each other.”
It is a scenario the sisters managed to avoid in Delhi four years ago when Donna opted to compete at a higher weight with only one wrestler per country allowed in each category. Those rules have changed for Glasgow though, allowing both sisters to take their chance at their natural weight.
Fortunately the sisters are more than familiar with facing each other in the sporting arena.
Competing at the same weight level in their judo days, the twins had to fight each other for the right to represent Scotland at the Commonwealth Games in 1986 with Donna coming out on top.
Four years later she again beat her sister to gain a place on the team and came back from the Auckland Games with a bronze medal.
The next time judo was included in the programme, at Manchester 2002, it was Fiona who gained the upper hand, equalling her twin’s effort with a bronze of her own.
Aside from the challenge of a potential sisterly showdown in Glasgow, the Robertson twins must also see off rivals who were not even born when they started their sporting career.
Not that age is something they are remotely worried about.
“We’ve just turned 45, so to finish off with a medal, especially in Glasgow, would be a dream. That’s why we stayed on in the sport,” said Donna.
“In a lot of sports age is an issue for selection but both of us have proven we can still compete with the younger players and I’m proud we can still do that.”
The last time they met in competition it was Fiona who came out on top, beating her sister to bronze at the Commonwealth Championships last November.
In a semi-final, at a home Games, in front of thousands of Scottish fans, this would be the biggest fight of their careers though.
And yet when it all ends, the two of them will go back to their home in Hamilton and carry on exactly as before. Just like they always have done.
“Even if we are fighting each other in the final, we will still warm up together and then go our separate ways,” said Fiona. “The competition is on the mat.”
