http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604265/s/28f80c8d/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cculture0Ctvandradio0C98944380CWWE0ERAW0Ewrestling0ESky0Ereview0Bhtml/story01.htm
WWE RAW wrestling, Sky, review
By Jonathan Liew
11:31AM GMT 26 Feb 2013
Comments
Enter Hamlet.
Hamlet: Now mother, what’s the matter? Gertrude: Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended. Hamlet: Mother, you have my father much offended. Gertrude: Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue. Hamlet: Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue. Gertrude: Have you forgot me? Commentator: Whoa! Hamlet’s grabbed the chair! Where did that come from?
Hamlet smacks a terrified Gertrude around the head, again and again, with the chair. Enter Polonius.
Commentator: Unbelievable! Lord Polonius is in the house! Polonius: Alas, poor Hamlet. Your ass is mine.
Polonius punches Hamlet in the kidneys. As he tries to grab Hamlet in a headlock, Hamlet knees Polonius in the testicles, grabs him by the shoulders, and throws him violently against the bargueno. Polonius recoils in pain. Hamlet reaches into his tunic.
Wrestling loses its grip on the Olympics
Michael Sheen's Hamlet, Young Vic
Commentator: He’s got the knuckle-dusters out! He’s going to finish him off! But wait! Who’s this? Malvolio: Party time, bitches!
One of the arguments that the advocates of WWE - the American professional wrestling that is shown on Monday nights in the UK on Sky - frequently use in response to its critics is that it is simply theatre. It is no more or less real than a West End show, or the latest multiplex blockbuster. If so, you rather wish these same people would stop calling its participants ‘athletes’. I mean, Daniel Day-Lewis looked an awful lot like Lincoln, but that doesn’t necessarily make him a president.
The trick that has kept WWE going for three decades and more is, of course, the swift camera cut they use whenever someone gets ‘hit’. At the very moment of ‘impact’, the TV director will switch to another angle, just in time for us to see the recipient of the blow recoiling in ‘pain’. Upon such visual wizardry has the franchise managed to generate revenue £398 million last year and make a multi-millionaire of its chief executive, Vince McMahon
McMahon opened last night’s WWE Raw show, hobbling into the arena on crutches as a result of a recent hip replacement. Was he really recovering from an operation? Did he really need the crutches? It turns out he did, for within minutes some rival promoter had entered the arena and punched him right in the babymaker. A brief fracas broke out, which ended in a succession of increasingly bronzed, increasingly beefy men entering the ring and pretending to hit each other. It was all most puzzling.
Push at all four walls, and they move. Not even the commercial breaks are safe. During one, a trailer was aired for the new Halle Berry film. This, too, turned out to be a WWE production. You might think that knowing everything is artifice rather takes the edge off the spectacle. On the contrary. The idea that nothing at all in the WWE universe is real, that nothing at all can be trusted, strikes a rather Lynchian note of menace. What’s to stop random body parts falling from the sky, or everybody suddenly declaring that the year is 2078 and we all need to start hunting our own dinner?
The howl you often hear from WWE diehards who will brook no criticism of their sport, even when it is pointed out to them that sport generally has rules and a winner that is decided on the day, is: “If you don’t like it, then don’t watch it.” Well, I’m afraid that simply won’t wash here. I don’t watch Come Dine With Me because I don’t like it. But with something like WWE, something so fundamentally, violently, perversely at odds with everything good in the world, it behoves the professional writer at least to ask a few questions.
So what do WWE fans get out of it? Escapism, certainly, but from what? To what? And then, as you see Tea Party-parody Zeb Coulter and Mexican-American fighter Alberto del Rio engaging in an unwieldy debate about the merits of immigration, you finally realise.
Of all the segments in last night’s show that could conceivably have been written by a 12-year-old, this was the only one that almost certainly was. “We have 11 million undocumented workers in this country!” shouted Coulter. “And the politically correct crowd don’t know exactly what they are – illegals. Real Americans already have a tough job enough finding work! They take our jobs! They take our medical services! They take our resources, and they stifle our productivity!”
“Your time to talk is over!” Del Rio countered. “Now it’s time for you to shut up! This is the greatest country on earth because it belongs to everyone!”
Inevitably, Coulter’s protégé Jack Swagger (‘Real American’) will fight Del Rio at Wrestlemania in April, a contest that will, one assumes, settle once and for all the debate over whether immigration is a good thing. That was certainly the ascription, anyway. And it is this, rather than the cartoon hitting, that I think lies at the root of WWE’s appeal. It creates a universe where even the thorniest, most intractable problems have the most elementary of solutions. How to solve the Middle East? Simply slip a mujahideen and an IDF soldier into leotards and make them slap it out.
A simple world for simple minds. It is easy to imagine that the typical WWE fan finds the real world bewildering and embittering: too much rejection, too many rules, too complicated by far. But for a few hours on a Monday night, he (it is almost invariably a he) can disappear into a universe in which there are no rules, in which steroid-rich dolts can produce the most stirring of oratory on demand, in which violence solves everything, without exceptions.
The main event of the night was the championship eliminator between the swarthy legend John Cena and the snarling upstart CM Punk. “Tonight is a night you will talk to your grandchildren about,” CM Punk promised at the start of a speech that really should have been delivered by Morgan Freeman for maximum, or indeed any, dramatic effect. “I am the greatest, I am the best in the world, I am immortal. A legend. An icon. The best, the greatest, and in the world that you all inhabit: I am God!”
These words may well have been written for a fictional character, but they definitely came out of a real person’s mind.
Cena won. The fight itself was a more orthodox affair, featuring plenty of grunting and almost no furniture. At one stage, CM Punk managed to duck a swinging Cena fist and respond with a meaty throw of his own.
“That’s how well he knows Cena!” the commentator roared.
I mean, It’s almost as if he knew what was coming.
Follow Telegraph TV & Radio on Twitter
