http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/640203/s/44461bb5/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cplayers0Cgareth0Ebale0C114640A270CGareth0EBale0Eneeds0Eto0Ecome0Ehome0EMan0EUtd0Ewould0Ewelcome0Ehim0Ewith0Eopen0Earms0Bhtml/story01.htm
Gareth Bale needs to come home - Man Utd would welcome him with open arms
By Luke Edwards
1:00PM GMT 11 Mar 2015
Comments
• Real line up Zinedine Zidane to take over from Ancelotti • Bale booed by his own fans on bad night for Real • 'Di Maria should move to Arsenal to save career'
There is something wrong with Gareth Bale and it is time for him to come home. There will be no disgrace in that, no recriminations, no snide comments about another Brit struggling abroad.
There will be a tinge of regret on his part, a bruising to his ego, but Bale needs to come back to the Premier League before too much damage is done to him at Real Madrid.
He has not failed as such. He is just the most expensive player in the world, rather than the best. He is becoming a scapegoat for fans and media pundits alike because he was never quite as good as a world record transfer fee suggested.
Bale is not the only player who is struggling for form at Real. He is not the only superstar whose performances are not matching expectations, but he is the one the Madrid fans pick on.
He is the one who is booed and whistled and he is the one, rightly or wrongly, who has supposedly frustrated the King. Not the Spanish one, Felipe VI, a keen Real supporter, but the King of the Bernabeu, Cristiano Ronaldo.
Ronaldo's frustration with his team-mates begins to show. GETTY IMAGES
Against Schalke in the Champions League on Tuesday night, as Madrid were given a horrible scare by the Germans, Bale looked like a player who had forgotten how good he is. His confidence has been shattered.
The slumped shoulders, the startled expression, the furrowed brow, the forced look of determination as 80,000 whistled in derision at him, Bale played like someone for whom everything has become an ordeal.
There was nothing instinctive in what he did. Playing for Real Madrid has become a chore and at the age of 25, that is not right.
The rumours of disharmony between himself and Ronaldo may not be true. The suggestion Ronaldo was jealous of Bale’s arrival may well be inaccurate, just as the claim the world’s best player is less than impressed with the ability of his teammate, could be nothing more than just spiteful mischief making.
The point is those rumours exist and they have helped fuel a view, Bale is not good enough to play for Real Madrid. They have helped shape negative perceptions, which is why supporters are turning on him when results and team performances dip.
Under-pressure: Bale has failed to perform for Real Madrid in recent months. Pic: Getty Images
To make matters worse, Bale may have cost more money than Ronaldo, but he is not as good as him. Ronaldo continues to carry the hopes and dreams of one of the world’s biggest clubs on his shoulders with only the occasional grimace. Ronaldo, despite a supposed loss of form, has scored 41 goals in 36 appearances for Real Madrid this season. Bale has managed 14 in 37 games.
They are hardly disastrous stats and goals are not the only means by which a player like Bale should be judged, but they do not compare well to the Portuguese who has raised the bar to superhuman levels.
In total, Bale has scored 36 goals in 76 games since Real paid £85m to sign him in the summer of 2013. He is not an out and out striker. Most clubs would be delighted with this return, but Real Madrid are not most clubs and Bale’s impact on games is much less than Ronaldo’s.
Bale has won the Champions League at Real. He could win La Liga in his second season, but he should be looking to leave in the summer. He has had his fun in the sun.

Bale is a brilliant footballer, but his strengths were forged in the British game and this is where he should return. He looks the perfect fit for Manchester United, one of the only clubs in the world who can afford to sign him.
The Welshman has everything Louis van Gaal’s midfield lacks, the only problem is, to sign him, United may have to let goalkeeper David De Gea move in the opposite direction.
If there is one thing more abundantly clear than Bale’s problems at Real Madrid, it is that Iker Casillas is no longer good enough to be their first choice goalkeeper. De Gea is the obvious replacement. Some sort of swap deal involving Bale would not be impossible to swallow.
Bale was never going to be ideal for the more intricate and patient Spanish game. He is not David Beckham, a player who never relied on his physical attributes and who found the less hectic La Liga style to his liking.
Did you know Telegraph Sport has a ?

Bale is a footballer for whom pace and power is key. It is his speed, with and without the ball, his energy and desire to be involved in everything , along with his shooting ability, that made him excel at Tottenham Hotspur. He is the sort of all-action midfielder British football loves.
He is tailor-made for United, but he could slot into any of England’s big clubs and improve them.
If he wants to stay abroad, Bayern Munich and the Bundesliga would also suit him well, although it is on these shores that he will be most welcome. Bale should come home.
