http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568759/s/4446a5fe/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cmotorsport0Cformulaone0C114643410CFears0Efor0ESauber0Efuture0Ein0EFormula0EOne0Eas0EGiedo0Evan0Eder0EGarde0Ecourt0Evictory0Eputs0Eteam0Eon0Everge0Eof0Ecollapse0Bhtml/story01.htm
Fears for Sauber future in Formula One as Giedo van der Garde court victory puts team on verge of collapse
By Daniel Johnson, F1 Correspondent
1:17PM GMT 11 Mar 2015
Comments
• In pics - F1 venues ranked and rated • Briatore labels Alonso crash 'very strange' • Manor F1 owner throws in £30m to save team • F1 minnows boosted by £20m advance from Bernie
Another Formula One team is feared to be on the verge of collapse after Sauber lost an unprecedented legal dispute over a ditched driver just 48 hours before the start of the new season.
A court in Melbourne ruled against the cash-strapped outfit, ordering Sauber to put Giedo van der Garde on the grid for Sunday's Australian Grand Prix, subject to an appeal on Thursday morning.
The Dutchman successfully argued the team reneged on his contract to race this year in an extraordinary legal row, even by Formula One’s colourful standards.
After the demise of Caterham and Marussia last year – the latter have since been revived as Manor – it brings the thorny subject of finances firmly back on the agenda, providing an unwelcome distraction from F1’s curtain raiser.
Giedo van der Garde is all smiles after leaving court. GETTY IMAGES
Sauber must have thought their fortunes could not get any worse after a dismal 2014, when they failed to score a point, but they now face an impossible choice which could push their already limited budget beyond its limits.
Should they obey the order and reinstate Van der Garde, dropping one of Felipe Nasr or Marcus Ericsson, the team will break their contracts and risk losing vital sponsorship. Nasr is thought to bring around £12 million from Banco do Brasil, while Ericsson, from Sweden, has £10 million of backing.
Van der Garde, 29, has his own financial clout, but it is believed Sauber stumped for Nasr and Ericsson because their supporters were willing to pay a substantial sum up front at the end of last year. Lawyers for the pair last night said they expected their clients to be driving in practice on Friday.
The ensuing legal costs may also be enough to force the Swiss-based team into bankruptcy after more than 20 years in Formula One. They have nurtured a host of future world champions, including Michael Schumacher and Kimi Raikkonen, but have tasted victory just once since Peter Sauber’s team joined the grid in 1993.
Kimi Raikkonen's career (pictured right) started at Sauber. REUTERS
There were even suggestions that Sauber could sit out Sunday’s race due to the knock-on effects of the Van der Garde case on their finances. Along with Force India and Lotus, they have already been given a $10 million (£6.6 million) advance payment by Formula One supremo Bernie Ecclestone to ensure they make it to Melbourne in the first place.
Even though many in F1 believe Ecclestone’s skewed distribution of the prize money has made life increasingly hard for the minnows, there is little sympathy for Sauber in the paddock, despite their dogged history in the sport.
Van der Garde, who was a test driver with the team last year and drove for Caterham in 2013, appears to have a legitimate grievance. “I’m very fit and very strong,” he told reporters gathered outside the Supreme Court of Victoria, not far from the circuit in Melbourne’s Albert Park. “I’m looking forward to going back to the team and we’ll work hard to do our best for this weekend. I still have a very good relation with the team. I’m looking forward to racing this weekend.”
Lawyers for Sauber had argued it was unsafe for Van der Garde to drive, threatening his safety, and that of fellow drivers and spectators. They claimed the seat-belt was not designed for the 29-year-old and putting him in the car would present an “unacceptable risk of physical harm or even death.”
Van der Garde's court victory could have severe consequences for Sauber. EPA
Monisha Kaltenborn, Sauber’s team principal, was not in the paddock but said in a statement: “We are disappointed with this decision and now need to take time to understand what it means and the impact it will have on the start of our season. What we cannot do is jeopardise the safety of our team, or any other driver on the track, by having an unprepared driver in a car that has now been tailored to two other assigned drivers.”
Sauber have until 16.00 local time on Thursday to inform the stewards who will be driving in practice for the Australian Grand Prix the following morning.
Although it is the first time a driver has successfully overturned a decision to be dropped, it is just the latest in a long history of legal battles in Formula One. At times it seems to spend more time in the courtroom than on the circuit, what with Ecclestone’s trial for bribery in Germany last year.
Ten years ago at this race Minardi took the FIA, motorsport’s governing body, to court over their right to apply new regulations. In 1982, the season-opener in South Africa was nearly abandoned after most of the drivers locked themselves in a hotel in protest at plans to keep them tied to one team for three years. But this latest row threatens to have the most lasting consequences yet.
