http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/672978/s/423060cb/sc/42/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cengland0C113379410CRoy0EHodgson0Efaces0Esnub0Eby0EPremier0ELeague0Eclubs0Eover0EEngland0Esquad0Eget0Etogether0Ein0EJanuary0Bhtml/story01.htm
Roy Hodgson faces snub by Premier League clubs over England squad get-together in January
By Jason Burt
10:30PM GMT 10 Jan 2015
Comments
Premier League clubs may be about to pour cold water on Roy Hodgson’s plans to gather his England squad this month.
Chelsea are understood to be chief among the clubs who have expressed concern about the innovative idea and have told the Football Association that because of their busy fixture schedule they do not intend to release Gary Cahill.
The FA has spoken to Jose Mourinho, the Chelsea manager, whose squad face Liverpool in the Capital One Cup semi-final, which covers both midweeks at the end of this month. Tottenham Hotspur are in the other semi-final.
Hodgson has been on holiday in Miami but has now returned to England – he attended Spurs’ match at Crystal Palace on Saturday, where he witnessed another goal by Harry Kane, who is on the verge of a senior call-up – and will meet the FA this week.
The squad get-together is planned to take place at St George’s Park, probably on a Thursday, and Hodgson will try to persuade the clubs to release their players by stating that he would need them only for a few hours and would ensure they were free to go before 10pm. That is unlikely to persuade every club, however, although Chelsea could be convinced if the meeting were to be switched to London.
Grant has work cut out with Ghana
How does Kane compare to rival England hopefuls?
Gerrard gave everything to Liverpool
World Cup 2014 review: Brazil carnival lives long in the memory
The FA insists that there is no plan to call off the get-together but, for example, Cahill was named by Hodgson as one of his ‘unit’ leaders and for him not to be attend would be an embarrassment.
Hodgson confirmed his plan in his end-of-year address to the FA’s in-house TV station in December. The manager said he was concerned at the lack of contact he would have with the players before March, when they reconvene for the Euro 2016 qualifier against Lithuania and the friendly in Italy. He said: “The time between the game in November and the next game we play in March is a long time. But luckily we’ve all agreed that we are going to get together at the end of January.”
Chelsea, meanwhile, opened up a two-point lead at the top of the Premier League with a 2-0 home win against Newcastle United while Manchester City drew 1-1 at Everton. Mourinho refused to speak to the media afterwards because of the FA misconduct charge he is poised to fight on Tuesday.
