http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/672978/s/40b46faa/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0C112383620CGareth0EBale0Eexclusive0Einterview0EReal0EMadrid0ESpurs0Bhtml/story01.htm
Gareth Bale: 'Without Real Madrid, it would have been very, very difficult to have ever left Spurs'
By Charlie Parrish
11:00AM GMT 21 Nov 2014
Comments
I have just asked Gareth Bale what he would order if we were to go out for tapas. ‘Well, we’d start with the jamón,’ he says. ‘In fact, I’m a bit obsessed with it. It’s the ultimate. I’d ship it home to England if I ever move back. There's this great restaurant called Txistu that all the footballers and famous people go to. We’d go there.’
Have you had to pay for many dinners there since the Champions League final?
‘A few times, but not many, no.’
Txistu’s proprietors must have Real Madrid season tickets. In May Bale scored the decisive goal in Real’s Champions League final triumph over their city rivals, Atlético. (‘I wish I could remember more about the goal,’ he says. ‘I watch it back now and I just think how much my knee must have been killing me because I slid so far celebrating.’) The previous month he had run half the length of the pitch to score and win his team the Copa del Rey (the Spanish FA Cup) against their fiercest rivals, Barcelona. It was the sort of Roy of the Rovers moment that crashes social media and justified Real’s extraordinary outlay on Bale that placed him among the club’s pantheon of galácticos. ‘It was incredible,’ his then teammate Xabi Alonso said of Bale’s last-gasp winner. ‘I have never seen anything like it’ – this from a man who has played in Spain, England and Germany, won the World Cup and La Liga, and has a pair each of European Championship and Champions League winners’ medals.
Bale picked his moments in his first season overseas. Real Madrid would have expected such an impact, of course. They were required to pay Tottenham Hotspur an enormous sum of money last summer to liberate Bale from north London and pair him with the superhuman record-botherer Cristiano Ronaldo. Year one was certainly a success: Champions League and Copa del Rey trophies, and 22 goals in 44 matches. He is still only 25, and both Bale and Real feel he is just getting started.
Gareth Bale: my favourite goals
Pochettino needs Mitchell's nous
Gareth Bale photoshoot: behind the scenes
Bale: I could return to Tottenham
I meet Bale outside downtown Madrid in a sprawling municipal sports centre. As word spreads of the unlikely visitor, gaggles of excited children fresh from PE classes gather. ‘Bale! Bale! Bale!’ they yell towards rooms they guess he might be in. When they finally spot him, he is patient and generous with his time, posing for ‘selfies’ and chatting away in impressive Spanish. Eventually, we smuggle him into a changing room.
Are you fluent in Spanish yet? ‘In swear words I am,’ he says, grinning. ‘But no, seriously, I’m taking classes every week and I understand so much more now. I certainly understand the team talk. As long as the manager doesn’t speak too quickly.’
‘It’s not great. I left school for a reason, and I’ve been dragged back! Not really, of course. Learning a language is something anyone would love to do and I’ve got a great excuse to do it.’
Conversation with Britain’s best footballer goes a lot like that. Question; self-deprecating quip; more considered reply. It befits a shy and private man who has done a staggeringly good job of keeping his young family out of the public glare. He very politely declines to speak about his personal life, but it’s a rather charming tale. He and his partner, Emma Rhys-Jones, began dating more than a decade ago when they were pupils at Whitchurch High School in Cardiff. His trademarked ‘heart hands’ goal celebration (the Intellectual Property Office approved its use in logo form in August 2013) is a tribute to her and their daughter, Alba Violet, who was two last month.
He has a good group around him in Madrid. Footballer entourages are traditionally cast as negative distractions but Bale’s party seems to provide the ideal counterbalance to his superstar public life – lots of good-natured mickey-taking and support, basically. A best friend from back home serves as his personal assistant. ‘I don’t think I’ve changed since I was a little kid,’ Bale says. ‘I still mess around and joke with my family and friends like I did when I was nine or 10. For me, nothing’s changed. Sure, I play football, but I try to keep my life off the pitch as simple as possible. My friends and family keep me grounded.’
Joining Real Madrid, with girlfriend, Emma Rhys-Jones, and daughter, Alba Violet, by his side PHOTO: Getty
Despite his support network, uprooting to Madrid was not without its difficulties. After seven years at Tottenham, Bale was settled. He had an easy drive down the M4 home to Cardiff and had matured into the star of a team whose fans worshipped him. ‘It was hard to start with, definitely,’ he says. ‘It’s always difficult to settle into a new team and a new country, but I felt as soon as I got into my house and got settled off the pitch everything would get a lot easier.’
Home comforts certainly helped smooth that integration. ‘It was brilliant when we got our personal chef,’ he says. ‘It’s like going out for a meal every night. He makes sure I eat all the right stuff – the vegetables, the fruits, the right types of meat, and prepares it in the right way.’
There must be things you miss from home, though? ‘Some good old British chocolate never goes amiss,’ he says. ‘A bit of Dairy Milk or Galaxy is fantastic. They have Milka here and it’s not the same.’ His eyes light up. ‘Oh, and Nando’s! I do miss a bit of Nando’s. It’s funny; it’s those tiny things you miss. We’ll bring English teabags over with us, and the chocolate. I can’t really move Nando’s over, though, unfortunately.’
And English football? Does the Premier League’s former poster boy miss the cold Tuesday nights away at Stoke? ‘It’s very interesting watching as an outsider,’ he says. ‘You find you’re more into it when you’re not playing in the league. You’re only concentrating on your team then.’
So no more partisan loyalties?
‘Of course there are,’ he says, suddenly deadly serious. ‘I still want Arsenal to lose and Spurs to win.’

Gareth Bale, photographed in Madrid for the Telegraph Magazine, November 2014 PHOTO: Benjamin McMahon
Gareth Bale joined Tottenham Hotspur from Southampton in May 2007. Spurs saw off Sir Alex Ferguson and Manchester United to sign the 17-year-old. ‘He was 6ft and gangly,’ Ferguson said last year. ‘Then all of a sudden he was built like a light-heavyweight American boxer. We were disappointed with Southampton at the time. We were there first and they never came back to us.’
For a long time Ferguson would have cared little. Bale’s early Tottenham travails were so tortuous they now form pub-quiz questions. A record 24 Premier League games across two years, two months and two weeks passed before Bale was in a winning Tottenham team. He was a ‘curse’, a punchline, and very lucky that Twitter was in its infancy. ‘I still maintain I actually started my Tottenham career quite well,’ he says, laughing. ‘I think I scored three in my first five or six games before getting an injury that kept me out for about eight months.
‘I talk about moving to Madrid as hard, but joining Spurs was the hardest. I’d gone from being a 16-year-old at Southampton to moving to Tottenham and playing with the likes of [Dimitar] Berbatov and Robbie [Keane] at a completely different level. And I literally didn’t know anybody at Spurs. At least I knew Luka [Modrić, Madrid’s former Tottenham midfielder] here. So then you pick up an injury and it’s hard. Medical people that examined my foot said I might not get back to the level I was at. It dented my confidence and made me go into my shell. But I worked harder and harder in training and tried to get my confidence back up. It takes time. But I got there and the rest is history, as they say.’
Bale’s story – like all good sporting tales – is punctuated by moments where adversity must be overcome. Despite a talent that meant PE teachers restricted Bale to playing one-touch football and not using his favoured left foot, back problems caused by a sudden growth spurt meant Southampton wobbled on signing him to schoolboy terms. Within two years he would become the club’s second-youngest-ever debutant, at 16 years and 275 days.
Playing for Southampton in 2007 PHOTO: Getty
Then the Tottenham curse. By the time he finally walked off a Premier League pitch victorious (a 5-0 win over Burnley in September 2009), Bale was on to his third Spurs manager. And one who wasn’t overly impressed at first. ‘Harry Redknapp gave me a real kick up the arse when he arrived,’ he says. ‘He was the one who started the ball rolling. If I didn’t get that kick I wouldn’t be where I am now. It happens with young players, but I needed that kick.’
Here, the story begins moving through the gears. Finally free of tedious jinxes and unshackled from his original left-back position, Bale was integral to Tottenham’s first (and to date, only) qualification for the Champions League, in 2009/2010. Then, just a year after that Burnley exorcism, his coming-out party: a Champions League hat-trick away against the reigning European champions, Internazionale. An elite few have harnessed the rip-snorting pace, wrecking-ball power and eye for goal that eviscerated Inter that night. Football’s big boys were now alerted to Bale’s promise.
PHOTO: Benjamin McMahon
It would take another couple of seasons before that promise matured into consistent excellence. The lightbulb moment? A meeting with Tottenham’s new coach in the summer of 2012. ‘I said at the beginning of that 2012/2013 season that I felt I could go up a level and was frustrated by being double-marked every game on the left-wing,’ Bale says. ‘André Villas-Boas had just joined and we had this big chat. We decided to give me that free role where I was able to wander and find space. That was it, then. As soon as we did it, I started playing better and scoring more goals, the team began winning more games and it had a snowball effect. My confidence was sky-high.’
His affection for Villas-Boas is clear. After Bale’s daughter’s birth, certain wags even pointed out how her initials matched his new mentor’s. ‘The confidence he showed in me was unbelievable,’ he says. ‘He instilled me with a belief that I can go on to the pitch and control a game. If we were struggling, I suddenly believed that I could go and take over. I’ll always be very grateful to him.’
Bale ended that incendiary 2012/2013 season drowning in personal recognition. He scored 26 goals, claimed the PFA (Professional Footballers’ Association) Players’ Player of the Year and Young Player of the Year awards, and was named the FWA (Football Writers’ Association) Player of the Year. The only other footballer to have won all three in the same season? Cristiano Ronaldo.
Scoring for Spurs versus Sunderland in May 2013, his final goal for the north London club PHOTO: Getty
Despite individual glory, his Tottenham side again fell agonisingly, self-destructively short. In each of Bale’s final two seasons in north London, the club finished a single point behind their neighbours Arsenal and ultimately missed out on that Champions League promised land. In the summer of 2013, Real Madrid came calling.
‘If it wasn’t Real Madrid, it would have been very, very difficult to ever leave,’ he says. ‘I hope the fans have forgiven me now. It was incredible to see all the messages of support from Tottenham fans after the Champions League final. So many people said how proud they were of me, and that felt amazing. I loved my time at Tottenham and the fans were always incredible to me. I think they understood that the opportunity to join Real Madrid was a once-in-a lifetime chance and at the time I was playing well and I wanted to test myself. Without Real Madrid, I would have loved to still be there playing for Spurs. But winning the Champions League shows exactly why I wanted to make the move.’
Scoring the decisive goal against Atlético Madrid in the Champions League final in May 2014 PHOTO: Getty
And has it been strange to go to school again?
He appears content. Very rarely do British players even venture overseas (for context, the last Englishman to be signed by a Spanish club from an English one was Jonathan Woodgate, who departed from Real Madrid eight years ago), but Bale is a rare breed. He left Wales as a schoolboy, headed for London before he was old enough to set foot inside a pub (not that he drinks) and exited the Premier League just as he had become its master.
‘I really am enjoying everything out here,’ he says. ‘The team’s doing brilliantly, and off the pitch it’s a lot more relaxed. It’s much warmer, which I love. Pre-season training in the summer is insane as it’s so hot. You sweat just standing there, so you have to hydrate with Lucozade Sport so much more. That's so important in modern football and for any athlete. I’m just a lot more comfortable with myself in the surroundings now.’
With Real Madrid teammate Cristiano Ronaldo in September 2014 PHOTO: Getty
And how’s Ronaldo? ‘Learning off the best player in the world is just incredible,’ Bale says. What’s the best thing he’s taught you? ‘Where to find a house in Madrid, actually,’ he laughs. ‘He’s been amazing since I’ve been there and I learn something new every day. He’s helping me become a better player, which is my constant goal. I’m trying to get up to his level. In fact, I’ve been trying to improve my right foot [Ronaldo is right-footed], but I’m not doing that any more.’
Why not?
‘Because every time I try, I pull one of my glutes! So that’s out of the window.’
He’s joking, of course. ‘I can improve everything, and working on my weaker foot is the main thing,’ he says.
PHOTO: Benjamin McMahon
Bale’s football hero is Ryan Giggs (‘he’s Welsh, he’s left-footed and played left-wing, so it was only natural he’d be my idol growing up’), who played into his 40s. Bale’s unsure if that appeals. ‘It’s quite early for me to be thinking about that,’ he says. ‘I don’t look too far forward.’
He is, however, very keen to surpass Giggs in one area. Wales have not qualified for a major international tournament since the 1976 European Championship and Bale is desperate to lead his country to the 2016 Championship in France. ‘I think it would be the joint biggest achievement in my career so far, on a par with the Champions League,’ he says. ‘We’d make history in Wales and it would mean so much to the country.’
Previous Welsh stars – including Giggs – have been accused of prioritising their club careers. Giggs played for Wales 64 times across a 16-year international career and retired from national-team duty aged 33. At 25, Bale has already earned 48 caps, finding the perfect club-country balance. ‘I love playing for Wales,’ he says. ‘It’s not a responsibility or a burden. And I like being a senior figure in the team now. I always remember joining up with the squad and playing this game called “toro”, where you have seven or eight on the outside and the two youngest in the middle and I was always in the middle! Now, I’m never in the middle. I know I’m old!

Meeting fans on the day of the Telegraph interview PHOTO: Benjamin McMahon
‘We have such a good team and we know we can achieve something. Before it was more, “maybe we can do something”, whereas now we know we can. We’ve got a young team, and I’m trying to help them through my experiences. I need to be a leader on the pitch now. I might not be the most vocal, but hopefully I can lead by example by running around and working hard.’
This sounds like the mature, measured talk of a future manager. ‘Of a Sunday league team, yes,’ he laughs. ‘You can never say never in football. But a manager? That all seems pretty stressful to me.’
- Gareth Bale was speaking on behalf of Lucozade Sport. To find out more and view exclusive content visit lucozadesport.com or follow @LucozadeSport
