http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/572595/s/3d8cabb9/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Ctottenham0Ehotspur0C110A376890CChristian0EEriksen0Eon0Esong0Eto0Ecarry0Eon0Elighting0Eup0ETottenham0Eafter0Edark0Edays0Eat0EWhite0EHart0ELane0Bhtml/story01.htm
Christian Eriksen on song to carry on lighting up Tottenham after dark days at White Hart Lane
By Matt Law
10:30PM BST 15 Aug 2014
Comments
Christian Eriksen knows the song, but claims he will only remember the words if they are recited to him. To the tune of the Black Lace hit Agadoo, Tottenham Hotspur supporters sing: “Eriksen, sen, sen, he's our number 23. Eriksen, sen, sen, came to play for AVB. To the left, to the right, he’s our midfield dynamite. When he plays for the Lilywhites, he makes Özil look -----.”
AVB may be long gone, but Eriksen is now aiming to build on a first season in English football in which he was compared favourably with Arsenal’s £42.5 million record signing, Mesut Özil.
While Özil started promisingly for Arsenal, but gradually faded, Eriksen’s form got better and better.
The £11.5 million signing from Ajax finished with 10 goals and 10 assists, while Özil managed six goals and 11 assists.
“I heard the song last year,” said Eriksen, smiling. “It happened pretty early after I joined. It’s nice when the fans make a song about you. I’ve never had that before.
Pochettino 'not scared of Spurs sacking habit'
10 key questions for the opening weekend
West Ham v Tottenham: preview
What happens when big-name players strike?
Premier League team news and match previews
“I considered myself quite similar to Özil when I was at Ajax. I used to watch him closely because he is such a good player. You look at people like Özil, how they play, how they turn, how they do stuff. Then you try to do those things, but your own way. I enjoy watching him, but when you get older you start to make your own things.”
One of those things Eriksen has made his own is free-kicks. The 22-year-old treated the White Hart Lane faithful to some wonderful set-pieces last season and has already given notice he will do so again with a brilliant pre-season strike against Celtic.

Eriksen learnt how to take a perfect free-kick from Frank de Boer at Ajax and has continued to work hard on his technique at Tottenham.
“At Ajax, Frank de Boer loved to take free-kicks as well,” said Eriksen. “He tried to help me sometimes. I have spent a lot of time working on my free-kicks and I still do. I haven’t done too much in pre-season. I like to practise against a keeper. It’s funny to beat the keeper. It doesn’t matter who the keeper is, Hugo [Lloris] usually goes back to the changing rooms. Sometimes we do it with mannequins in the way and sometimes without.”
While Eriksen has been a big success at Tottenham, a number of last summer’s signings were not so quick to settle and were not helped by a change of manager when Tim Sherwood took over from Andre Villas-Boas. Former Southampton head coach Mauricio Pochettino was appointed to succeed Sherwood in May and Spurs have enjoyed a relatively quiet pre-season as the club look to stop all the upheaval.
Eriksen, who was speaking as he came face-to-face with a 3D printed version of his FIFA 15 ‘self’, said: “I think it was difficult for us to find our rhythm last season. Of course, it takes time with seven new players and with two trainers to get used to everyone. Every trainer has different ideas, so, of course, it takes time. Hopefully, we’ve had the time now in the pre-season to get involved and see the new ideas.
“It helps having a trainer from the beginning of the season, you get to know his ideas and his structures straight away. That also depends on the new players, to learn as well. For new players and players who were here before, it is still a new trainer so you are in the same boat, which will probably help you at the end.
“It’s been a hard pre-season under the new trainer. The first few weeks there were times when we went to bed pretty early. Now, of course, you try to get used to it.
“There have been double sessions two times a week when we’re training at 10am and then again at 4pm, so it’s a long day. Mentally as well it’s pretty hard, but it’s fun to play football so it’s all right. If he wants us to press and play like Southampton did, then all the work is necessary.”
Tottenham start their Premier League campaign at West Ham today, having lost to their fierce rivals three times last season.
“I don’t know why we played badly against West Ham,” said Eriksen. “Of course, they play different from what we want to do, but we will have to show we can do better than last year.
“We had some pretty dark days, but, of course, for this season we just want to be more stabilised and do better against the top-four teams and also West Ham.”
Christian Eriksen was speaking at the announcement of EA SPORTS’ partnership extension with the Premier League. EA SPORTS FIFA 15 is available at www.easports.com/uk/fifa/buy.
