http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604241/s/3d098cf4/sc/40/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Ccommonwealthgames0C110A0A21120CEnglands0Ewomen0Egymnasts0Ewin0Eclean0Esweep0Eof0EGlasgow0EGames0Emedals0Ewith0EClaudia0EFragapane0Eclinching0Egold0Bhtml/story01.htm
England's women gymnasts win clean-sweep of Glasgow Games medals with Claudia Fragapane clinching gold
By Jonathan Liew
7:31AM BST 31 Jul 2014
Comments
Gymnastics is an endlessly complex sport, both in concept and execution. And yet it works on more than one level. Most of the spectators shuffling into the SSE Hydro yesterday for the men’s and women’s all-around events would have been only hazily acquainted with their finer points.
You do not have to know what a Rybalko is, or be able to identify a back uprise to straddle planche, to recognise the fundamental truth about artistic gymnastics: it looks absolutely amazing. This is one of the main reasons why it is always one of the most sought-after tickets at any Commonwealth Games.
But however new they are to the sport, anyone can understand a number, and anyone can grasp the significance of a gold medal. Which is why Max Whitlock’s win yesterday worked on more than one level, too.
Whitlock’s second gold in two days, following his participation in the team competition on Tuesday, lifted England above Australia in the medals table.
More than that, though, by breaking the 90-point barrier for the second day in succession, the 21-year-old from Hemel Hempstead moved into the world’s elite.
Whitlock claims gymnastics gold
Laugher leads by example
Barrow and Couch claim diving silver for England
'Great Games - shame about weather and food'
England win battle of Britain to reach hockey semis
For a male all-around gymnast, 90 is the elusive number. Since the points system was overhauled in 2006, no man has won a world or Olympic title without hitting it. Whitlock ­finished on 90.631, winning with a comfortable margin over Scotland’s Dan Keatings. Leeds teenager Nile Wilson completed a British clean sweep of the podium.
There was another clean sweep for England in the women’s competition, with Claudia Fragapane snatching gold after a stunning final floor routine, ahead of Ruby Harrold and Hannah Whelan.
Just 16 years of age and only 4ft 7in in height, Fragapane was lying outside the medals going into her final rotation. But a flawless performance earned her a second gold medal of the Games, marking her out as a new force in the sport.
All of which bodes awfully well for the 2016 Olympics, to say nothing of the World Championships in China in October. British gymnastics has often been blessed with isolated stars: Neil Thomas, Beth Tweddle, latterly Louis Smith. But now it has an entire team of world-class talents, both male and female.
For now, Whitlock is top of the pile. His dominance of this event was such that he recorded the highest score in four of the six apparatus. Even on the vault, one of his weaker events, he scored a very fine 14.500. It was an almost flawless performance.
What was also impressive was the way he continued to attack the competition, refusing to play it safe, continuing to attempt the highest degrees of difficulty despite his healthy lead.
“I like to do that in every competition I do,” he said. “Part of the reason is to give myself more experience. The whole idea is for it to be as good as I can by Rio.”
Keatings, too, was delighted with his day’s work, his silver medal in front of a home crowd a moment he thought he would never see. Eight years ago, at the Melbourne Games, he was on his penultimate rotation, the floor, when he felt something go in his back. He left the arena in a wheelchair, his spine fractured in three places, his Games over.
Two years ago, after failing to make the London Olympics, he decided he was going to throw in the towel. “It was very close,” he said. “In my mind, I was pretty certain I was going to ­finish. Paul [Hall, his coach] changed my mind. But I’ve got a saying, ‘Your disappointments make you stronger’, and they really do.”
Then there was Wilson, the 18-year-old from Leeds who was competing in schools competitions just two years ago. Wilson is quite different from Whitlock – all brawn and scrawn and heft. The high bar and parallel bars are his strongest events. “In a couple of years’ time, he’ll be amazing,” Whitlock said of his compatriot. Fortunately, that is when the Olympics will be taking place.
Wilson is too young to remember the truly lean years of British gymnastics. Which is a measure of where we are now: this country is now one of the major powers in the sport.
