http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/648508/s/4173e5b2/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Csports0Epersonality0Eof0Ethe0Eyear0C112938560CSports0EPersonality0EWhy0ELewis0EHamilton0Ewas0Ea0Eworthy0Ewinner0Bhtml/story01.htm
Sports Personality: Why Lewis Hamilton was a worthy winner
By Daniel Johnson
12:30PM GMT 15 Dec 2014
Comments
Whatever the respective merits of Lewis Hamilton and Rory Mcllroy’s sporting achievements this year, the former fits the bill for a gong dictated not by logic but by public enthusiasm.
Hamilton is, fundamentally, a personality, prepared now more than ever to show himself, even if that includes bringing his pet bulldog, Roscoe, to the BBC Sports Personality Awards in Glasgow, or continuing to don ‘hi top’ trainers with a dinner jacket.
Even in a Ryder Cup year, the persistent exposure of Formula One over golf also played its part. The result is Hamilton won and won comfortably. In an unashamed popularity contest, you cannot argue with the public vote.
Through the trials and tribulations of an intense inter-team rivalry for Formula One’s biggest crown this year, we have seen a different Hamilton; one where the monosyllabic interviews immediately after a disappointment are on the wane.
The 29-year-old is not the archetypal gentleman driver as the motor racing community would have it. If anything, Hamilton looked more comfortable with a wider audience on Sunday than he did a week ago at the industry’s Autosport awards.
Golf, not Rory McIlroy, has lost its popularity
Golfers brand McIlroy's SPOTY snub 'a joke'
Hamilton wins SPOTY
SPOTY 2014 award: as it happened
But there is now a sincerity to how he behaves which has evidently chimed with the wider public. Even among the other nominees on Sunday, he held the stage best and seemed genuinely delighted and shocked to have won.
For a sport laden with doom and gloom, Hamilton is alone flying the flag for Formula One, transcending the boundaries of motor racing with a boosted social media presence in which he repeatedly engages with his army of fans. Clearly all the heckling about his Monaco residency did not have an effect.
In sporting terms, whatever Mcllroy’s feats, Hamilton could not have done much more in his sport. British double world champions do not grow on trees. There have been only four in history and Hamilton is the first since Sir Jackie Stewart more than four decades ago.
In a 19-race season, he won 11. He also broke Nigel Mansell’s British record for race victories. Apart from when his car broke down, he never finished outside of the podium. More than that, he overcame his team-mate Nico Rosberg despite consistently being on the back foot due to a combination of car unreliability and his foe’s questionable tactics.
Yes, Hamilton was driving for Mercedes, the best car by miles. But that is all part of the game in Formula One, of being the most complete driver out there. Placing yourself in the right team at the right time is a manoeuvre not many, including Hamilton until 2014, have mastered.
Whatever his foibles and quirks, Hamilton has finally found his place in the British public’s hearts. He is a sportsman and a personality of which the country can be proud.
