http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/572077/s/3e43df28/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Ceuro0E20A160C110A83170A0CSwitzerland0Ev0EEngland0EEuro0E20A160Equalifying0Eplayer0Eratings0Bhtml/story01.htm
Fabian Delph impresses on England debut - player ratings from Euro 2016 qualifier in Switzerland
By Matt Law, Basle
9:30AM BST 09 Sep 2014
Comments
Joe Hart Once again showed his class by making a wonderful save with his foot from Seferovic that stopped Switzerland taking the lead. Hart also kept out a powerful volley from the striker. 8/10
John Stones Produced a strong tackle to stop Mehmedi escaping down the left, but got caught out on a couple of occasions. As was the case against Norwary, Stones was not so confident when he tried to attack. 6
Gary Cahill Superb saving block to stop Drmic equalising after he had rounded Hart. Cahill was dominant in the air against Seferovic and cool in possession. An impressive performance from the Chelsea defender. 9
Phil Jones A mixed evening for the defender. He was lucky to survive a penalty appeal and a terrible mistake, but was also unlucky to see a powerful header well saved by Switzerland goalkeeper Sommer. Forced off with an injury. 6
Leighton Baines Performed well at both ends. The Everton man made a vital interception to stop a chipped ball into the penalty area from Shaqiri and produced a good cross from the left that Rooney headed wide. 7
England clock on with impressive victory
Three Lions have got their teeth back, says Hodgson
Sterling is now England's most important player
Switzerland v England: as it happened
Delph impresses on debut - England player ratings
Jack Wilshere Anchored England’s midfield and accepted the responsibility of trying to stop Swiss attacks and get Hodgson’s team on the front foot. Shot just wide after combining well with Delph. 7
Jordan Henderson Involved in the second-half move that nearly produced an England goal, as Sterling completely missed his kick from his Liverpool team-mate’s low cross and Behrami almost diverted the ball into his own net. 7
Fabian Delph Rode his luck in the first 10 minutes, when he was booked and could have been sent-off. Delph then settled, completing 100 per cent of his first-half passes and carried the ball forwards well. 7
Raheem Sterling Given the number 10 role behind the strikers by Hodgson, Sterling was busy and inventive. He set up Rooney, who shot at Sommer, and kept his cool to tee up Welbeck for his goal. 7
Danny Welbeck In front of Arsenal chief executive Ivan Gazidis, Welbeck wasted a great situation by passing to nobody after racing into the penalty area. But he made up for it by getting on the scoresheet from Sterling’s cross and killed the game with a late second. 7
Wayne Rooney Wasted two first-half chances by shooting straight at Sommer and heading wide from a Baines cross. The striker saw another shot well saved, but made the breakaway from which England went ahead. 7
Substitutes: James Milner (on for Wilshere, 73) 6. The midfielder won his 50th England cap after replacing Wilshere and produced a typically energetic performance.
Phil Jagielka (on for Jones, 78) 7. Resumed his partnership with Cahill after Jones suffered a late injury and cut out two crosses to help England keep a clean sheet.
Rickie Lambert (on for Rooney, 90) 6. Thrown on by Hodgson to waste some valuable time at the end of the game.
Switzerland (4-3-3): Sommer 7; Lichtsteiner 6, Djourou 5, Von Bergen 5, Rodriguez 6; Behrami 6, Inler 8, Xhaka 6 (Dzemaili 75, 6); Shaqiri 7, Seferovic 6, Mehmedi 6 (Drmic 64, 6).
- Switzerland 0 England 2: Henry Winter's match report - Paul Hayward: England finally summon spirit of adventure - Jason Burt: Sterling is England's most important player - 29 things that have changed since the World Cup
