http://www.zdnet.com/article/google-cfo-patrick-pichette-retiring/#ftag=RSSbaffb68
Google CFO Patrick Pichette retiring; will stay on through transition | ZDNet
Google chief financial officer Patrick Pichette announced on Wednesday afternoon he would be retiring from his post at the Internet giant in order to spend more time with his family."Yeah, I know you've heard that line before," Pichette wrote on his Google+ page. "We give a lot to our jobs. I certainly did. And while I am not looking for sympathy, I want to share my thought process because so many people struggle to strike the right balance between work and personal life."In true Google fashion, Pichette elaborated further about his motivations in a long story, which includes climbing Mount Kilimanjaro at sunrise and subscribing to a tongue-in-cheek, not-quite-secret society (i.e. "the Fraternity of Worldwide Insecure Over-achievers)."But as I count it now, it has also been a frenetic pace for about 1500 weeks now," Pichette quipped in the post. "Always on - even when I was not supposed to be."Nevertheless, Pichette's split from Google appears amicable, and he isn't running out the door immediately.Pichette pledged to stay on as CFO until a replacement can be found and then through a subsequent transition period -- all of which Pichette acknowledged will "take some time." Nevertheless, Pichette obviously as an end date in sight, noting his 25th wedding anniversary and a promise to his wife that they would be "hitting the road soon" for more globe-trotting.The tech veteran stepped up as chief financial officer at Google seven years ago.Prior to his time in Mountain View, Pichette already had more than two decades of telecommunications industry leadership experience under his belt. Pichette spent a previous seven years at Bell Canada, where he held a number of various executive positions, including CFO from 2002 until the end of 2003.Prior to joining Bell Canada, Pichette was a partner at McKinsey & Company, spearheading the firm's North American Telecom Practice. He also served as vice president and chief financial officer of Call-Net Enterprises Inc., a Canadian telecommunications company. Pichette is currently a board member of Trudeau Foundation and Bombardier Inc., and serves as an advisor to Engineers Without Borders, Canada. Pichette's announcement follows last summer's departure of Google's chief business officer, Nikesh Arora, widely credited with growing Google's advertising business (and cash cow). Arora since went on to Softbank to serve as CEO of its Internet and Media operation.