Gravity Four finds Android owners spend more than iPhone users
Long-time iPhone devotees Mirsad Makalic and Loki Davison grew tired of being stifled by the iTunes gateway funnelling them into Apple's closed ecosystem, so they decided to switch sides.
Their former brethren didn't hide their contempt.
"My office was full of Apple fanboys," Gravity Four co-founder Makalic said. "We had many arguments and discussions about the whole Apple versus Android thing."
Instead of taking the Apple bait and responding in kind, the pair channelled the hate into something positive. They teamed up with lead artist Veronica Winata to develop the Fruit vs Robot app, used by the warring device owners to do battle across different games.
Since its launch in August, there are more than 8,000 players, with more on iOS than Android. The cross-platform competition and real-time multiplayer features are applied across a range of games, including trivia, board games, connect four, and arcade games. Players can unlock games faster by purchasing virtual "gold."
They were shocked to learn which group of users were the least willing to spend money.
"We've found that currently, the average Android player is much more keen to pay, and pays much more than the average iOS player," Davison said.
"Fruit vs Robot is also an effective test ground for us to try out marketing and sales strategies for our upcoming titles.
"We're currently working on our next game, which will take the multiplayer experience in a different direction."
If they're keen to make money, perhaps they should focus on the Android users.
Gravity Four has developed technology to connect two disparate, warring groups. It taps into quite a popular, passionate issue: Is Apple better than Android?
There's no clear business model. The games are also very simple, and users could easily get bored. They need some engaging, unique games — a la Angry Birds — to really make an impact.
Just getting statistics about Apple and Android users is extremely interesting, and could be a business in itself. If Gravity Four can white label the technology to other game developers, then that would be a huge opportunity.
Someone could take the same idea and develop more complex games.
In a mobile world full of hate, it's quite inspiring to see people do something to unite these warring parties. It's a great idea; however, without revenue and a more sophisticated, entertaining game, then it will be hard to stave off competitors.
Verdict: BUST

