Net neutrality: A conversation with Keao Caindec of 365 Data Centers
365DataCenters Chief Commercial Officer, Keao Caindec, and I spoke about net neutrality and what it means to businesses and to individuals. Net neutrality is a highly controversial topic that affects everyone who leverages the Internet for business or for personal use.
Mr. Caindec explains net neutrality in terms of the economic impact it will have and how 365 DataCenters is aligning itself to assist users and businesses with the transition.
Podcast: Length: 19:11 mins. Format: MP3 Rating: G

Podcast not working? Click here to download the file.
Net Neutrality Defined
Some definitions describe net neutrality as something akin to free speech, but I think it goes deeper than that definition, so my definition is somewhat broader in scope. Net neutrality is the concept that all data is treated equally by network providers and that no one should be charged differently for how the data is used or by who uses the data.
Pro Neutrality Arguments

EU passes net neutrality law, votes to end throttling, site blocking
Against Neutrality Arguments
Opponents assert that neutrality will deplete funds required for network innovation. By lowering costs, the profit margins won't be there to put back into research and development programs. Others state that neutrality is more government control and regulation over private enterprise and communications is already heavily regulated.

Obama calls for net neutrality, Internet service as a utility
I personally favor fewer regulations, equal access, competitive rates, and non-government sponsored innovation and research. Yes, it's a dilemma and there are no easy answers. Keao Caindec and I discuss some high altitude touch points on the issue in this podcast. Of course, time constraints didn't allow us to fully explore the issue, but I did invite him back to continue the conversation in more depth.
What's your opinion of net neutrality? Are you for it or against it and why?
Related Stories:

