Asetek brings liquid cooling to California
Norwegian liquid cooling company Asetek announced today that it had been chosen to provide the liquid cooling solution to two new supercomputing data centers in California. The California Energy Commission (CEC) selection is worth $3.5 million and involves not just Asetek-originated equipment but also the addition of liquid cooling to servers from multiple OEMs.
The 21st Century Data Center
More than ever, data centers run the world, but many of them need a 21st century reboot. Today’s data centers have to be more efficient, redundant, and flexible than ever. We examine when and how to best run your own data center versus when to outsource to the cloud or a service provider, and when to take a hybrid approach.
RackCDU D2C is direct-to-chip hot water liquid cooling specifically for data center environments. It involves the Asetek rack mounts which house the water circulation equipment and liquid-to-liquid heat exchangers, external dry cooling or cooling towers, and cold plate units that sit directly on CPUs, GPUs, and memory, replacing traditional heat sinks, and moving heat from within the servers to the cooling medium.
Asetek expects to install approximately 90 of their RackCDU racks while adding the capability to other OEM equipment (the RackCUD is a 10.5-inch rack extension which contains the cooling equipment components that can be added to existing OEM 19-inch racks.). There will also be additional equipment installed specifically to allow monitoring of the environment, tracking energy savings, cost savings, and computational performance over the first 12 months of the product. The intent is to publish a report using these metrics after one year of operation. The expectation is that cooling cost will be reduced by 50 percent when compared to traditional cooling methods.
The project duration is expected to be 24 months, with a start date of July 1, 2015. Hardware installation is to be in two phases, in months 6 and 13.

