http://www.zdnet.com/article/cloud-computing-busts-silos-and-drives-cio-relevance/#ftag=RSSbaffb68
Cloud computing busts silos to help the CIO
A survey of IT leaders regarding their expectations of cloud computing, sponsored by Tata Communications, offers unsurprising, perhaps obvious, conclusions. Despite the boring data, an exciting truth does emerge - cloud can help make the CIO and IT more relevant to the business.
For this report, market researchers, Vanson Bourne, "conducted a total of 1000 interviews with senior IT decision-makers in private organisations of 500 employees or more," during September and October 2014. Although the report mentions "interviews," it appears these were online survey responses rather than face-to-face interviews:
The stated goal of the survey is measuring adoption of cloud computing and determining whether business decision-makers have realized expected benefits from their use of cloud.
Security and Privacy: New Challenges
As big data, the IoT, and social media spread their wings, they bring new challenges to information security and user privacy.
Some key findings [PDF download]:
Largely, these findings confirm what we already know: almost everyone is using the cloud. More interesting is the fact that 28 percent of respondents' corporate data is stored in the cloud today. However, only 2 percent are storing this data in a public or hybrid cloud.
From these numbers, we can make a clear interpretation: cloud computing is increasingly an integral part of the IT landscape. However, many companies are still learning, experimenting, and testing the waters. Private cloud offers a natural stepping-stone to broader cloud adoption, so the progression to greater use of public cloud (and hybrid) is inevitable.
The ability to drive organizational change is one of the least understood aspects of cloud computing. The survey explains that cloud computing is a team effort, involving departments outside of IT:
As these graphs show, cloud computing is a silo-busting team activity. Knowing that other departments want to be involved in making decisions about the cloud gives CIOs and IT an excellent opportunity to foster dialog among business users.

In a world where IT continues to fight for strategic relevance, cloud offers an ideal vehicle for the CIO to develop a dialog with users. These discussions will inevitably become a foundation of relevancy for the CIO.
Related reading:
CIO and IT leaders: YOU hold the burden of proof...
Harvard Medical professor and CIO on failure and massive transparency
IT spend is growing, but CIOs 'just don't get it'
Research: CIO relationships and priorities remain conflicted
Digital marketing and CIO / CMO relationships
Digital transformation: CIO / CMO and the crisis of confidence
