http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2014/09/02/jennifer-lawrence-nude-pics-hack-shows-need-to-update-intellectual-property-law
Nude Photo Hack Is Digital Theft
Never mind that terrorist cells may be trying to “weaponize” the bubonic plague. The big story is the “hack” that let nude photos of dozens of famous women – some of whom are primarily famous because they are willing to be seen naked – out onto the Internet.
Trust me. People were not logging on after a long Labor Day weekend to search for “virus” and “ISIS” and other terms that will help them comprehend the pending potential threat. No, they were typing “Kate Upton,” “Kaley Cuoco,” and “Jennifer Lawrence” followed by the words “nude” or “naked” into their Web browsers.
No one should be surprised. Something like this was bound to happen, sooner or later. The extent of the hacking is not yet fully known but as the British Daily Mail reported the hundreds of photos – some of which may have been out in public for months – “could be just the tip of the iceberg of stolen celebrity pictures.”
[READ: The Internet Won't Forget, So Society Must]
“Exchanged on the deep web black market and deviant message boards specializing in stolen 'revenge porn' photography, the compromising pictures have been used as a currency of sorts among perverted members of these forums,” the Mail wrote. Indeed some of the celebrities involved have already acknowledged that the photos are genuine.
“Worryingly for the general public," the Mail said, “is how simple the posters make their privacy theft seem,” raising the prospect that cloud computing storage – the latest technological innovation – may not be a safe place to store information.
Some have decided the entertainment personalities who were victimized are to blame, arguing that there is never any need for anyone to pose for “those kind of photos.” That’s a value judgment, and in the opinion of some, an unfair one. There are presumably work-related, non-salacious reasons for the pictures to have been taken.
But even if there weren't, so what? Even if these digitized images are an expression of extreme carnality and base lusts on the part of those who posed for the pictures and those who took them, they are other people’s property and they are, as far as we know, stolen.
[MORE: Cartoons on the NSA]
The same advances that have made the Internet the technological wonder of the age have made it harder and harder for individuals and corporations to protect their intellectual property. The pre-released leak of one Hollywood blockbuster into cyberspace not only caused the film to turn in less-than-stellar numbers at the box office, it probably tanked the whole franchise.
The theft of intellectual property is a serious problem that costs the economy billions of dollars every year in lost revenue. It's a job-killer, retards innovation and now, as we have seen through the “publication” of these photos, can be an invasion of privacy that harms reputations and causes great personal embarrassment to its victims.
Congress has tried to address the issue before but its efforts – some of which admittedly were a bit of an overreach – were blocked by companies and activists who apparently believe that anything and everything on the Internet ought to be free and accessible. Such entities fail to comprehend (or do comprehend and move along anyway because the facts conflict with their business model) that taking what belongs to someone else and generating returns with it is, at least according to common law and custom, wrong.
[MORE: Cartoons about Congress]
What we are dealing with is not so much a new celebrity scandal but theft at some level of organization, perpetrated by people who are taking advantage of holes in new technological systems. The companies that operate cloud servers might want to seriously rethink their archival policies, perhaps taking future steps to assure that things users delete from their own systems are also deleted from the servers.
But it is equally wrong to blame them. The law must be brought up-to-date with the times and with the capacity of criminals to find newer, more clever ways to steal.
