http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2014/07/25/chris-christie-fiddles-while-cuomos-corruption-problems-come-to-light
Christie Fiddles While Cuomo Burns
New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie’s presidential aspirations were badly damaged by the misconduct of aides who thought it would be a neat idea to close the approaches to the George Washington Bridge in order to teach a lesson to a local elected official who wouldn’t play ball during Christie's re-election bid.
Though the story has died down it hasn’t completely gone away. It remains a point on which Christie (who is also head of the Republican Governors’ Association) is vulnerable – as New York‘s Republican gubernatorial candidate, Westchester County executive Rob Astorino, reminded everyone earlier this week.
Part of Christie’s job as head of the RGA is to help raise funds for gubernatorial candidates like Astorino who, for the moment at least, remains an attractive underdog in the upcoming election against Democrat incumbent Andrew Cuomo.
[SEE: Cartoons on Chris Christie]
So far, while he’s been willing to travel to states like California to campaign – a place full of wealthy Republican donors that isn’t going to be electing a Republican governor in the fall even though there is an election – he’s not doing much to help Astorino (who is from New York, where Christie already knows all the money people).
When asked about his seeming lack of interest in the New York race, Christie cracked that the RGA wasn’t going to be paying for any landslides or “investing in lost causes” – which most people interpreted as a pretty clear signal that, as far the national GOP group is concerned, Astorino is on his own.
This went over about as well as a person wearing a Red Sox jersey while sitting in the owners’ box at a New York Yankees game. The county executive then fired back that Christie was sitting out the race because Cuomo, who co-chairs the bi-state agency that owns the George Washington Bridge, knew too much about Bridgegate and was holding it over the head of his across-the-Hudson River counterpart. Astorino then suggested, in a story that got a lot of attention in the political press, that Christie should step down from the chairmanship of the RGA.
What he’s suggesting is plausible, but there may be a simpler explanation. According to several NY GOP insiders, some of the same Republican money and political people who’ve backed Christie and would do so if he runs for president in 2016 – folks like billionaire Home Depot co-founder Ken Langone and former Republican United States Sen. Alphonse D’Amato – are also backing Cuomo’s bid for a second term. They’re working as hard as they can to choke off Astorino’s access to campaign cash.
[SEE: Cartoons on the Democratic Party]
By giving Astorino the high hat, the New Jersey governor is keeping his donors happy – never mind that this may come at the cost of winning for the GOP control of the governor’s mansion in Albany.
It’s more than a bit strange that some of the New York GOP establishment is trying to sink its own gubernatorial candidate at a time when Cuomo is sinking even deeper into trouble. The Democrat still maintains a 40-point lead in the polls, but that reflects the general lack of support for the GOP across New York right now, as well as simple name ID. People know Cuomo, they don’t know Astorino, and most folks just won’t say they’ll vote for someone they don’t know. Even so, the Democrat's job approval numbers are not very good, the state’s right track/wrong direction numbers in private polling reflect abysmally on Cuomo, and people and jobs are continuing to leave the state.
That’s the upside. The downside is that the New York Times just published a lengthy piece suggesting the Democratic governor interfered in the operation of an anti-corruption commission he himself created and then helped to shut down before anyone got burned too badly. Albany is a cesspool right now, and needs a reform-minded chief executive to come to town like a new sheriff and clean things up. Cuomo’s hands may be dirtier than anyone has up to now suspected, meaning the race has the potential to blow wide open as Labor Day approaches. The lack of involvement by the RGA, which is putting at least some money down on even bigger longshots in other parts of the country, is doing real damage to Astorino by suggesting through Christie that it won’t be giving him any help.
Not everyone feels this way. Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, who is himself in a tough 2014 re-election battle and is also a potential 2016 presidential candidate, is being helpful. National Republicans should take note that a potential upset is apparently being left on the table by the Christie-run RGA – and they should remember in November and when the next presidential contest kicks off in Iowa and New Hampshire.
