http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/robert-schlesinger/2014/10/02/will-the-gop-bring-back-obamacare-one-more-time-for-2014-midterm-elections
One More Wave of the Bloody Obamacare Shirt
With the exception of some token “Happy anniversary healthcare.gov!” stuff from the GOP, Obamacare has largely faded as a cutting political issue in the 2014 congressional midterm elections. But we can probably expect for it to make a surprise last-minute comeback, a top Republican pollster said this morning, as GOP candidates try to goose their base one more time.
“I think you’ll see some candidates come back to it late,” Neil Newhouse of Public Opinion Strategies said at an appearance with Charlie Cook and Democratic pollster Stan Greenberg, which was sponsored by National Journal. “Obamacare is shorthand for big government bureaucracy, government takeover of health care” so it is a handy way to wave the proverbial bloody shirt in front of the base.
Riling the base seems to be all that’s left in terms of Obamacare’s potency as an issue. The fact is that since the colossal disaster that was the website’s roll-out a year ago, the Affordable Care Act has largely worked. It remains unpopular, but for the most part voters have moved on. As a result, it has become the incredible shrinking issue on the campaign trail with a sharply diminishing number of people talking about it. But Greenberg noted that the Obamacare remains the single biggest topic of ads the GOP has run thus far and argued that if after Nov. 4 we look back and ask why the GOP failed to recapture the Senate for a third cycle in a row, its focus on a base issue could be the answer.
While Newhouse is a widely respected, veteran pollster, he is known to many casual political observers as the pollster for a 2012 Mitt Romney campaign that thought it was riding momentum and enthusiasm to a presidential victory. He’s clearly taken the lessons of that campaign to heart, as he warned against the GOP being too pleased with the enthusiasm advantage it’s enjoying.
[: Cartoons on President Obama]
He said that there is a “terrific Republican enthusiasm advantage” going into November and that “you’re going to have to hold them back from the polls on Election Day,” but warned against giving that advantage too much weight when predicting the outcome of the midterms. “We had that same intensity advantage in 2012,” he said. “One of the lessons I’ve learned is that an unenthusiastic vote counts just as much as an enthusiastic one. … All this you hear about the Republican intensity advantage – cautionary tale – I’ve seen those numbers [and] we have a long ways to go. In political terms we’re … several lifetimes” from Election Day.
Overall, Cook gave Republicans a 60 percent chance of retaking the Senate. He said that the GOP has “three gimme putts” – the seats Democratic incumbents are vacating in South Dakota, West Virginia and Montana – and then just needs to beat three more Democratic incumbents in states that Mitt Romney won by 14 points or more in 2012: Louisiana, Arkansas and Alaska. “If they just get Republican states voting Republican then they don’t need to win any of those swing states,” he said.
[: Cartoons about Congress]
That last is an important point to remember amidst the spin-storm that will develop in the wake of a GOP Senate capture about how the elections are a national rebuke to the president or endorsement of the GOP. In that same vein, keep in mind Newhouse’s observation that “this is not a national election, this is a 10-state election” focused on a handful of battleground states – and in this context “battleground state” doesn’t have the same connotation that it does in a presidential year, thanks to matters of Senate incumbency (see Louisiana, Arkansas and Alaska).
See Photos
Overall, Newhouse didn’t put a number on the outcome but said, “I think it’s going to be very tight.” Greenberg was slightly more optimistic than Cook for his party, saying the election is “genuinely on a knife’s edge” and adding that “I’m in the 50-50 probability.”
[: Cartoons on the Economy]
And, as Cook noted, Republicans will face a mirror-opposite landscape in the 2016 Senate fight, with the advantages they now enjoy – defending far fewer seats, having the fight play out in red states and dealing with an off-year electorate (meaning smaller, whiter, older, more male and more conservative) – being flipped: The GOP will have far more seats in play, will be defending seats in blue states and will have a larger, more Democrat-friendly electorate.
Of course, in 2016 control of the Senate will be the undercard. Asked about advice for their parties in 2016, Greenberg, who has close ties to the Clintons, quipped that while he knew it was a conflict to say so, “having a seasoned woman presidential candidate is really the right” thing for the party. More seriously, he said that Democratic leaders still need to have “a mature discussion [with voters] about this economy and what do you have to do to raise incomes.” The economy, he said, has fundamentally changed in a way his party has yet to seriously acknowledge.
[: Cartoons about the Republican Party]
Newhouse said that the GOP still has a “demographics issue that’s got to be addressed in the post-Obama era among African-Americans and among Latinos. And unless we address that we’re going to have a tough time winning the presidency.”
