http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/robert-schlesinger/2014/04/11/no-vance-mcallister-shouldnt-resign-from-congress
No, Vance McAllister Shouldn’t Resign From Congress - US News
So various members of the Louisiana Republican establishment are calling for Rep. Vance McAllister to resign from Congress because of “extreme hypocrisy” and because he’s become “an embarrassment.” It’s true that McAllister is better known by his unfortunate new nom de guerre, “the Kissing Congressman,” and in many states that might be grounds for complaints of hypocrisy and embarrassment, if not for calls for resignation. But when those complaints come from Louisiana Republicans, you have to wonder if it’s an elaborate and belated April Fool’s joke or some sort of satirical performance art meant to illustrate the vacuity of the political system.
Let me take a step back and say that as general matter I don’t think extramarital affairs have much to do with qualification for office and I certainly don’t think they’re grounds for resignation. Now there are cases – if the politician in question made his Christian conservative values the cornerstone of his campaign, for example, as McAllister did – where the revelation of peccadillos opens him up to public ridicule and even campaign charges of hypocrisy. If a pol is going to run on his pristine virtues, an opponent is entitled to make an issue of their absence. And certainly if a politician has a text message exchange with a stranger about the unfolding scandal – as McAllister did – it opens him up to charges of being too stupid to hold public office.
[ Read blogger Lara Brown on why McAllister will likely be ousted from Congress.]
But there’s a difference between making the case in a campaign that voters should fire him for these reasons and demanding he quit because of them. Resignation under duress should be the result of a real breach of the public trust, not a little extracurricular snogging.
Which brings us back to McAllister’s Republican quit chorus, and specifically Gov. Bobby Jindal, who issued a statement saying that McAllister's behavior “is an embarrassment and he should resign” and state party Chairman Roger Villere, who complained of McAllister’s “extreme hypocrisy,” demanded an “immediate resignation” and added that the freshman lawmaker had “embarrassed our party, our state and the institution of Congress.”
Tough stuff all around – but let’s put it all in context. Louisiana and its voters know something about members of Congress getting into embarrassing, hypocritical situations involving extramarital escapades. Before the Kissing Congressman the best-known contemporary political product of the Pelican State was Sen. David Vitter, who has admitted to patronizing prostitutes, which is illegal even in New Orleans. If you want to talk about things that are embarrassing for a party, state and the institution of Congress, try Googling “David Vitter diaper.”
And if you want to talk about rank hypocrisy, ask Messieurs Jindal and Villere about their demands for Vitter’s resignation. Jindal stood by Vitter, expressing hope that no one would try to exploit the scandal “for their own political gain,” and Villere suggested that the matter would blow over.
[See a collection of political cartoons on Congress.]
I don’t know how much longer McAllister will hold on, but can we agree on a rule that pols who demand his resignation must also answer for Vitter?
Vitter has successfully stood for re-election since his scandal and is now the odds-on favorite to succeed Jindal in the governor’s mansion, which tells you what you need to know about how outraged Louisiana voters get about marital extracurriculars.
If nothing else, Vitter deserves credit for – unlike his Louisiana GOP colleagues – having the good sense to keep his mouth shut about the whole McAllister affair.
