http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2015/01/20/republican-contenders-bum-rush-the-state-of-the-union
Republican Contenders Bum-Rush the State of the Union - US News
Why even bother to wait for the president’s State of the Union address when you can release a neatly packaged, preconceived response?
[ALSO: The State of the Union Is Irrelevant]
That was the true state of the Republican rebuttal to President Barack Obama’s account of the country’s political health. He’s been there six years, they already knew what he was going to say and they were convinced that they weren’t going to like it. So bombs away.
See Photos
It’s customary for excerpts of the speech and the ensuing response to be sent to reporters early as an accommodation, but also as a nod to the acceleration of the news cycle. Sen. Joni Ernst, R-Iowa, who delivered the official GOP reaction, laid down her areas of opposition more than two hours before Obama took the dais.
“Americans have been hurting, but when we demanded solutions, too often Washington responded with the same stale mindset that led to failed policies like Obamacare. It’s a mindset that gave us political talking points, not serious solutions,” the freshman senator said.
But aspiring GOP presidential candidates weren’t going to let the official response be the last word – or the first, for that matter.
Not soon after Ernst’s remarks dropped in email inboxes, Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal, a Republican likely to run for president in 2016, weighed in dismissively – though a bit carelessly – on the rapid-fire social media vortex of Twitter.
I’ll save you 45 mins. Obama will decry Republicans, beat up on private business and argue for more “free stuff". Your welcome. #SOTU2015”
Jindal’s mistaken use of “your” in his punchline set off a mini-firestorm online, with his adversaries eager to fire back at him and rekindle memories of his awkward official response in 2009.
Bobby Jindal, gold standard for screwing up the #SOTU response. RT @RalstonReports: pro tip: Know YOUR grammar. https://t.co/s1aM5xISaB
Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, set a low bar for Obama’s remarks early Tuesday, concluding the president had failed to heed the lesson of the 2014 midterm elections and joking that much like an infamous "Saturday Night Live" sketch, he just wants “more cowbell.”
Nothing the president could have said on foreign policy likely would have assuaged Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla. Rubio was accompanied to the speech by the daughter of a dissident Cuban political activist, in a symbol of his vehement opposition to the president’s plan to normalize relations with Cuba.
[ALSO: Top Tweets From the 2015 State of the Union]
Rubio sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry Tuesday urging the administration to require Cuba to show progress on the release of political activists and to halt providing safe harbor to fugitives in order to achieve normalization. Obama breezily blew by that recommendation, trumpeting his plan to move beyond a policy of the past.
During the day, Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., sought to build momentum by constructing a quiz meant to chastise Obama on claims he made in prior State of the Union addresses. He sent a string of Twitter missives while Obama spoke, taking umbrage with the president’s plan to provide community college free of charge.
This>>> pic.twitter.com/nhokuPvZAT
After the actual speech, Paul followed it up with his own response, which was broadcast on a YouTube channel. In a 12-minute video, Paul called for congressional term limits, floated legislation that would give lawmakers more time to read legislation and advocated for an end to "perpetual military intervention."
His speech was more about his own White House agenda than Obama's, but he still pinned blame on the president for presiding over an "undercurrent of unease in this country."
But it wasn’t all vitriol from the next line of men who want to be president.
Former Sen. Rick Santorum’s first remark, about midway through the president’s address, was a point of agreement on a goal, if not a policy to achieve it.
A line I agree with is we want people to not only share in America's success but contribute to its success.
And then there was Obama’s 2012 opponent, Mitt Romney, showing another sign of an itch to climb back into the arena by releasing a statement on his Facebook page while the president exited the Capitol dome.
“More intent on winning elections than on winning progress, he ignores the fact that the country has elected a Congress that favors smaller government and lower taxes,” Romney wrote. “Rather than bridging the gap between the parties, he makes 'bridge to nowhere' proposals. Disappointing. A missed opportunity to lead.”
