http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2014/09/15/hillary-clinton-tells-iowa-im-back
Hillary Clinton Tells Iowa: 'I'm Back!'
INDIANOLA, Iowa – Hillary Clinton used her return to the home of the nation’s kickoff presidential contest Sunday primarily to advocate for Democrats on the ballot in the homestretch of the 2014 midterms. But she also couldn’t resist playfully hinting at the prospects of her own White House campaign in 2016.
Clinton made at least three references to another presidential run in her 23-minute speech at Iowa Democratic Sen. Tom Harkin’s steak fry, the annual signature event that draws thousands of Iowa Democrats to a bucolic rolling field regularly used for hot air balloon festivals.
“Hello Iowa, I’m back!,” Clinton exclaimed as she took the podium, outstretching her arms to her sides for maximum effect.
[QUIZ: Are You A Clinton Connossieur?]
It was her first visit to the Hawkeye State since her failed 2008 presidential campaign, when she finished third in the state’s caucuses behind then-Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill., and former Sen. John Edwards, D-N.C. The poor showing sucked the inevitability out of her front-running campaign and provided Obama an immeasurable boost of momentum.
While some attendees hoped Clinton might use the setting for redemptive symbolism to announce her intentions to seek the presidency again, she would only go so far as to indicate it’s clearly in the cards.
“I’ve got a few things on my mind these days,” she teased, recounting Harkin’s initial invite to appear here. First and foremost, Clinton said, is being a grandmother to her expectant daughter’s first child.
“And then of course, there’s that other thing,” she said, without even having to explicitly say what it was.
“It is true, I am thinking about it. But for today, that is not why I’m here,” she said to audible groans. “I’m here for the steak.”
While she devoted a significant portion of her speech to paying tribute to the retiring Harkin and his wife, Clinton also attempted to use her remarks to summon Democrats to vote this November in down-ballot races that historically don’t gain as much interest. Iowa is home to one of the closest U.S. Senate contests in the country.
“Too many people only get excited about presidential campaigns. Look, I get excited about presidential campaigns, too,” she said to laughs that morphed into cheers. “Use the enthusiasm that Iowa is so well known for every presidential year and channel that into these upcoming elections.”
But even in remarks directed toward congressional and statewide elections, there were elements of what a Clinton campaign message could sound like if she decides to wage another bid next year.
She blasted Republicans as “guardians of gridlock” and described Democrats as the party of “shared opportunity and shared prosperity.” She lamented the nation’s capitol as a place with “too little cooperation and too much conflict.” She spoke of the need of establishing a “secure world.”
Clinton drew the most thunderous applause when she praised Rep. Bruce Braley, D-Iowa, as a Senate candidate “who knows that women should be able to make our own health care decisions.” It was a jab at Republican Senate contender Joni Ernst, whom Clinton never mentioned by name.
It was a satisfying, if not riveting, performance by the former secretary of state, who has never been an exceptional speaker. But being followed on stage by the greatest political talent of a generation – a man she also happens to be married to – makes the bar almost unreasonable to meet.
Former President Bill Clinton followed his wife, delivering a more vividly visceral and detailed appeal on behalf of Democrats. He compared the much-maligned Koch Brothers – a pair of wealthy conservatives who have devoted a large chunk of their personal fortune to Republican candidates – to shady moneymen conducting “black bag operations.”
But he took particular relish in mocking Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell for allegedly saying on tape that the 2002 passage of campaign finance reform legislation designed to limit contributions and enhance transparency – commonly known as McCain-Feingold – was the worst day of his political life.
“How could you think that’s the worst thing that ever happened?” asked the former president. “What about 9/11? What about the financial meltdown?”
“One thing I know, everybody up here will be just like Tom Harkin was, in one respect. They’ll be in this for you when you need it,” continued Bill Clinton. “They may make mistakes, they may do things you don’t agree with. But you will not have to worry that if you elect them 30 years from now, they will actually stand up with a straight face before a bunch of out of state donors and say, ‘The saddest day of my life is when I couldn’t take it all from you and keep a secret.’”
It was vintage Clinton, personal, direct and compelling, a reprise of his critically acclaimed performance at the 2012 Democratic National Convention on behalf of President Obama’s re-election.
Afterward, Democrats left excited about Hillary’s future, but were still wowed by Bill.
“Bill is always good. He knows how to simplify a message so that everybody understands it and walks away with a picture in their mind,” says Bob Dornacker, a Democrat who made the 2-hour drive from Omaha, Nebraska to see the Clintons. “Hillary, I think Bill’s right, she’s smarter than he is. But she’s not quite the politician that he is. And it’s not fair to compare the two of them. I don’t know of any current politicians who would be equal to Bill Clinton right now. She’ll get better at it, she’ll never be quite that good.”
[MORE: How Hillary's 2016 Timeline Will Affect the Others]
On Friday, Republicans used a conference call to remind reporters of Hillary Clinton’s problems connecting in a state where voters are accustomed to retail politics.
“Unless there’s been some kind of a born again experience in terms of her ability to interact with the common person and the common Iowan, I think she’s got some issues,” said Iowa GOP chairman Jeff Kaufmann.
But both Dornacker and his wife, Pat, doesn’t think the charisma gap between the spouses will ultimately hurt Hillary Clinton.
“The future is women in politics and she is an excellent representative for women,” says Bob Dornacker.
Interjects Pat, “Fifty-five percent of the population [are] women. They’d be fools to pass her up.”
That’s almost the percentage Clinton is drawing in the latest survey of Iowa Democrats. She took 53 percent in a CNN poll taken just last week. Vice President Joe Biden was far behind in second place, the preference of just 15 percent of Democrats for the party’s nomination.
Clinton’s dominating position was reflected in the crowd, which was infiltrated by Ready for Hillary supporters and volunteers. While the super PAC’s deftly distributed signs thanking the Harkins for their service, those that simply said “Ready” needed no further explanation. Meanwhile, outside the fry, a mobile “Ready for Hillary” billboard was seen roaming surrounding streets.
Not surprisingly, skeptics remained among some of the attendees. Iowans, after all, are notorious for waiting until the final weeks to settle on a caucus choice. The 2016 caucuses are still more than 16 months away.
Margaret Smith of Hampton, Iowa, supported Clinton in 2008, but expressed resistance to signing on again due to her hawkish posture on Israel.
“He’s a better speaker,” she says, referring to Bill Clinton. “But she seems to be pretty well on her way.”
And in fact, Hillary Clinton closed her remarks signaling she wouldn’t be stranger.
“It’s really great to be back,” she said. “Let’s not let another seven years go by.”
