http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/washington-whispers/2015/02/10/three-minute-briefing-obama-asks-congress-to-let-him-do-what-hes-doing-already
Three-Minute Briefing: Obama Asks Congress to Let Him Do What He's Doing Already
Happy Tuesday, the 41st day of 2015 and the 14th year since then-President George W. Bush signed a Congressionally approved bill granting him authorization to use military force against the perpetrators of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks – power he then used to invade Iraq 17 months after 9/11. National security analysts say that invasion, and the instability that followed, helped create the conditions that spawned the Islamic State group. President Barack Obama, who won office by opposing the Iraq invasion, reportedly will give Congress a revamped AUMF bill that formally gives him permission to fight Islamic State group in Iraq and Syria, even though U.S. forces have been bombing the insurgents there since September, and the bill could mean U.S. troops head back to Iraq (see below). Here is your Three-Minute Briefing, all the News You can Use in 180 seconds or less:
[READ: Whoops? Obama Says He Needs Authority From Congress to Fight ISIS]
Battle Lines: Obama says he doesn’t really need permission from Congress to attack Islamic State group, but will ask for their formal approval because whatever, Constitution, might as well. But he’s got a tough sell ahead of him: The Republican majority on Capitol Hill wants him to consider sending in some U.S. troops to knock heads and take names in Iraq and Syria, but the Dems say they’ll block authorization if the president doesn’t foreswear the boots-on-the-ground option for an exhausted military that just wrapped up a decade of war against the Taliban in Afghanistan and Iraq.
Believe the Hype: In his recently issued National Security Strategy, Obama says climate change is an “urgent and growing” threat to national security, and the Pentagon’s vast naval complex in coastal Norfolk, Virginia, is Exhibit A. Rising sea levels are already affecting operations at the world’s largest military base, threatening to swamp it and the city which surrounds it. Mother Jones reports that framing climate change as a security threat is a change from the last NSS but matches Obama’s more assertive stance on global warming.
Se Habla Español: It’s no secret that by 2050, America’s going to be a majority-minority country, with the Latino and Asian populations spiking. Mic.com reports that a demographer has crunched some numbers and put together a series of charts of what it would look like, from new patterns of Asian and Latino miration in the U.S. to an explosion in the number of multiracial children who’ll be eliigible to vote 45 years from now.
Narc Alert: The fight over marijuana legalization in Washington, District of Columbia, took an Orwellian turn Monday: after the GOP-led House blocked the City Council from using taxpayer money to make weed legal, Council members held a “roundtable discussion” on a legalization strategy, dodging Congress’ prohibition to hold a hearing and talk about it on the clock. But discussions on marijuana pretty much ended at just that, and the councilmembers seemed no closer to figuring out how to break the stalemate.
Bernie Buzzkill: He and Sen. Elizabeth Warren, the liberal rock star, share populist beliefs, and the left’s been pining for a 2016 primary challenger to push Hillary Clinton. But Sen. Bernie Sanders, a Vermont independent, gets no love from pundits or the public, and U.S. News’ David Catanese reports why: His message is a real bummer. “Maybe the game is over,” he said in a Q&A after a speech at Brookings Institution Monday, mulling the millions of dollars he’d need to run for the White House. “Maybe [billionaires] have bought the United States government. Maybe there is no turning back. Maybe we've gone over the edge. I don't know. I surely hope not. But we have to look at that reality.”
[ALSO: Bernie Sanders: The Billionaires May Just Win]
What the Huck? Obama’s National Prayer Breakfast speech is almost a week old, but it’s still got evangelical Christians competing for best over-the-top reactions. Today’s contestant: Mike Huckabee, potential Republican presidential candidate, Baptist minister and potential Top Chef-Varmints contestant. On Fox & Friends Monday, Huck blasted Obama for “undying” support of Islamic State group because he noted Christians, too, did bad things in the name of religion. But he failed to note that, in the same speech, Obama condemned Islamic State group as a bloodthirsty organization that has perverted Islam. This is why we can’t have nice things, like sane political debate or moderate Republicans.
Ollie Ollie Oxen Free: They’ve got more than a dozen potential presidential candidates banging around in their 2016 mosh pit, but Republicans have just one Democratic target so far: Hillary Clinton. So the RNC is cranking up the ad machine with a campaign, called “Hillary’s Hiding,” designed to call her out for ducking hard questions in a presidential campaign she hasn’t officially declared for – and that hasn’t really started yet.
Throwback Tuesday: Twenty-five years ago, the leader of the free world was a law student at Harvard. A pretty good law student, as it turns out, and the New York Times presaged history by noting he was the first African-American elected editor of the Harvard Law Review, and suggesting this kid Barry might go places someday.
Nothing to See Here: Ethan Czahor, the new tech officer of Jeb Bush’s new political action committee, took to the Twitters Monday for some damage control after Buzzfeed caught him deleting some tasteless, vaguely offensive Tweets that’d been hanging around for awhile on his timeline.
i deleted some old jokes i made years ago that i no longer find funny or appropriate. #learning #maturing
Probably just a coincidence that he just kind of decided to get rid of them now, the day after Bush hired him to run digital media. Probably.
Senator, Your Libertarian Is Showing: Just when Senator Rand Paul, a potential GOP presidential candidate, gets mainstream traction – talking about criminal justice reform, the plight of the poor and such – his libertarian starts to leak out. A week after getting needled for saying parents should be allowed to opt out of inoculating their kids, Paul, in Des Moines, Iowa, over the weekend, said the Federal Reserve Bank is “out to get us,” intends to wreck the economy and should be audited, which is a nut libertarians have wanted to crack for some time now. Although, judging by the reaction to Paul, most voters feel the same way.
Federal Reserve officials are attacking me. Personally! Help fight back: http://t.co/EE1zNpQb9G pic.twitter.com/pjWO0A00Tz
Stat of the Day: Percentage of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s 2014 primary-campaign contributions that came from the United States: 90. Percentage that came from three U.S. families: 30 (courtesy Harper’s Index).
Duly Noted: On this day in 1962, the Soviet Union exchanged captured American U-2 pilot Francis Gary Powers for Rudolf Abel, a Soviet spy held by the United States; Republican George W. Romney announced his ultimately successful candidacy for governor of Michigan. In 1989, Ron Brown was elected the first African-American chairman of the Democratic National Committee.
Happy Birthday Aquarians: Opera singer Leontyne Price (88), actor Robert Wagner (85), singer Roberta Flack (78), Olympic swimming legend Mark Spitz (65), World Golf Hall of Famer Greg Norman (60), filmmaker Alexander Payne (54), ABC News correspondent George Stephanopoulos (54), political commentator Glenn Beck (51), actress Laura Dern (48), reggaeton singer Don Omar (37), actress Uzo Aduba of "Orange is the New Black" and actor Max Brown (both 34), Makenzie Vega (21), actress Yara Shahidi of "black-ish" (15).
