http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/washington-whispers/2015/01/16/three-minute-briefing-reality-check-for-gop-and-romney-steps-to-the-mic
Three-Minute Briefing: Reality Check for GOP and Romney Steps to the Mic
TGIF, the 16th day of 2015, and the second day of closed-door strategy sessions by Democrats and Republicans. President Barack Obama reportedly energized Democrats with his new assertiveness, while Republicans plan to blame Obama at every turn. It’s also the 102nd year since Congress began receiving State of the Union reports from their president; Obama continues the tradition in four days. And it’s the seventh year, minus one month, since then-GOP presidential also-ran Mitt Romney pulled the plug on his 2008 presidential campaign with a farewell speech at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference; some in his party apparently are hoping for a repeat performance when he addresses the Republican National Committee retreat in California today. Here is your Three-Minute Briefing, 180 seconds of All The News You Can Use, prepared fresh daily:
One Nation, Under Surveillance: National Journal reports that the White House is set to announce a series of reforms to the National Security Agency, the spy agency that vacuumed up Americans’ electronic data, like cell phone information and email exchanges, in the name of fighting terrorism. The announcement, which NJ reports will probably happen around month’s end, will also include more information about the abuses identified by exiled NSA leaker Edward Snowden in late 2013.
What Goes Up: Since asserting himself after the 2014 midterms – cutting a climate deal with China, acting unilaterally on immigration, normalizing relations with Cuba – President Barack Obama’s approval ratings scooted up. The Princeton Election Consortium reports that, after examining the data, they’ve concluded that the sudden popularity of an unpopular president is real and probably will be sustained for awhile, even if they aren’t exactly sure why.
[READ: John Podesta, the Operative's Operative, Gets Ready for Hillary]
Basking in the Glo: Looking to build on his Obam-mentum, the president will sit down and answer questions from three star YouTube vloggers – including GloZell Green, a zany, green-lipstick-wearing comedian who makes Johnny Knoxville seem like Bob Newhart. She’s known for stunts like inhaling a sliced onion and attempting to change her eye color with honey, and has her own catch phrase: “Is you OK? Is you good? ‘Cuz I wanted to know.”
Why Ask Why: Since Mitt Romney will “almost certainly” run for president again, there’s been speculation over a simple question: Why? Slate’s John Dickerson reports there are now a few answers, including Mr. 47 Percent’s belief that voters didn’t see his warm, human side, his assertion he could’ve better managed recent scandals like the Veterans Affairs mess and that he’d be “crazy” not to run against a “beatable” Hillary Clinton. Or a weak incumbent president with a bad economy and a health plan everyone hated, like the guy he ran against last time.
Bitter Pill: At the Republican lawmakers’ retreat in Hershey, Pennsylvania (“the Sweetest Place on Earth,” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell had a reality check for his delegation: it would take a miracle to reverse President Barack Obama’s executive move protecting 5 million undocumented immigrants from deportation, and the White House has outlawed miracles.
No Punting: Meanwhile in Baltimore, where the Democrats are meeting in their annual getaway, Obama said he plans to “play offense” during his last two years in office, using his veto pen to block Republicans trying to dismantle his agenda and his executive power to get things done, according to Politico. That includes smacking down a bill that would crank up sanctions against Iran just as the administration says it’s nearing a breakthrough on nuclear disarmament.
[ALSO: What Mitt's Missing for 2016]
You’ve Got Questions: In his weekly, “Ask the Governor” radio show, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie confirmed that he’s thinking about running for president (duh!) but hasn’t made a decision yet, won’t let his family change his mind if he does go for it, and plans to keep his day job while – um, if – he mounts a campaign in 2016. Oh, yeah: if Christie and Jeb Bush both decide to run, it won’t hurt their friendship. Much.
Live Free, Vote for Me: As heavyweights Romney and Bush duke it out like Godzilla and Mothra for the GOP establishment vote (and money) in New Hampshire, Sen. Rand Paul plans to use his libertarian swag in the Granite State, tapping into the whole Live Free or Die thing (see below). And it could work: the state’s strong independent streak – and lack of a state income tax – has made it home to a kind of libertarian Woodstock.
“Victory or Death - Bring it!”: Paul’s strategy reminded us of outgoing Texas Gov. Rick Perry another 2016 Republican presidential contender, and how excited he was about New Hampshire’s philosophy during the last presidential cycle:
“Selma” Comes to Washington: The day after its Oscar snub, the White House says it’s rolling out the red carpet for the cast and crew of “Selma,” the blockbuster movie based on a seminal moment in American history. Obama will host a screening of the film for the cast and crew, including Oprah Winfrey, who has a small role in the movie, and director Ava DuVernay, who missed out on a Best Director nomination.
[STUDY: Women are MIA in Hollywood]
Stat of the Day: Estimated amount of taxes and fees that Colorado has collected from the marijuana industry since legalization: $34.8 million. That Texas collects from undocumented workers each year: $1.608 billion (courtesy Harper’s Index).
Duly Noted: On this date in 1865, Union Maj. Gen. William T. Sherman issued Special Field Order No. 15 – the famous Forty Acres and a Mule deal of reparations for freed slaves. He decreed that 400,000 acres of land in South Carolina, Georgia and Florida would be confiscated, divided into 40-acre lots for the freedmen: President Andrew Johnson later killed the plan. In 1883, the U.S. Civil Service Commission was established. America went dry in 1920 as the 18th Amendment took effect, one year to the day after its ratification. In 1991, the White House announced the start of Operation Desert Storm to drive Iraqi forces out of Kuwait, and in 1995, the now-defunct United Paramount Network (UPN) made its debut by broadcasting the first episode of "Star Trek: Voyager.”
Happy Birthday, Capricorns: Author-editor Norman Podhoretz (85), opera singer Marilyn Horne (81), NASCAR Hall of Famer A.J. Foyt (80), singer Katherine Anderson Schaffner of The Marvelettes (71), talk show host Dr. Laura Schlessinger (68), actress-dancer-choreographer Debbie Allen (65), pop chanteuse Sade (56), rhythm-and-blues singer Maxine Jones of En Vogue (49), stick-thin supermodel Kate Moss (41) rock star Nick Valensi of The Strokes (34), actress Renee Felice Smith (30), NFL quarterback Joe Flacco (30).
