http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/11/09/obama-reelection-not-celebrated_n_2104201.html
Obama Reelection Not Celebrated By Everyone
While President Barack Obama won the votes of millions of Americans, he has failed to warm the hearts of some key world figures. Unsurprisingly, Iran's Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was less than impressed and Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez, too, had some stern words of warning for Obama's second term.
Which other world figures still have a bone to pick with America's newly reelected president? Find out in the slideshow below.
"He should reflect first on his own nation, which has a lot of economic and social problems. It's a divided, socially fractured country with a super-elite exploiting the people ... He should dedicate himself to governing his country and forget dividing and invading other nations." Caption: Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez gestures during a campaign rally for his reelection in Valencia, Carabobo state, Venezuela on October 3, 2012. (LUIS ACOSTA/AFP/GettyImages)
"It's better to have a sheep in wolf's clothing than a wolf in sheep's clothing." Caption: In this file picture taken on August 19, 2012 Wikileaks founder Julian Assange gives a thumbs up to the media and his supporters from the balcony of the Ecuadorian Embassy in London. (CARL COURT/AFP/Getty Images)
"Coming or going, winning or losing is not important ... The important thing is the policy and behavior. And this behavior must be changed." Caption: Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad holds a press conference in Tehran on October 2, 2012. (ATTA KENARE/AFP/GettyImages)
"We listened to the moderate speech by Obama in the wake of his first presidential victory, but his policy did not fit into this discourse and in front of him now is an opportunity to apply what he had promised the people of the region away from the pressures of the Israeli lobby." said Hamas figure Taher al-Nunu. Caption: Ismail Haniya, the head of the Hamas government in the Gaza Strip (tR) chairs a meeting members of the Palestinian Legislative Council in Gaza City on September 2, 2012. (MAHMUD HAMS/AFP/GettyImages)
"Obama has to recognize and thank Latinos because it was thanks to them that he is reelected president. The best thing [he] could do is to end the economic blockade of Cuba," he said. Caption: Bolivia's Evo Morales, speaks to the press December 13, 2005 in La Paz, Bolivia. Bolivia, South America's poorest country, is about to face a crucial election with leftist candidate Evo Morales leading the field. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)
Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko congratulated Barack Obama on his first election win, but was reportedly disappointed when his U.S. counterpart didn't return the gesture after the 2010 Belarusian elections, in which Lukashenko won reelection for the third time. It seems Obama will not be getting kudos from Belarus this time. Caption: Belarus's President Alexander Lukashenko delivers a speech in the Grand Kremlin Palace on November,18, 2011 in Moscow, Russia. (Photo by Sasha Mordovets/Getty Images)
