http://www.nationaljournal.com/off-to-the-races/romney-exit-opens-the-field-20150202
Romney Exit Opens the Field - NationalJournal.com
The political world has been abuzz for the past four days about Mitt Romney's announcement that he would not seek the 2016 Republican presidential nomination. The decision by the 2012 GOP nominee and former Massachusetts governor both was and wasn't a surprise, and it affects the prospects of some would-be rivals far more than others.
Obviously, when someone who sits atop most national polls of Republican voters as their favorite for the GOP nomination decides not to run, there is an element of surprise. Yet many political elites, inside and outside the Republican Party, saw Romney's lead as built on sand, amounting to a combination of name recognition, familiarity, and general goodwill among most party members; a feeling that he was "a good man" was cited often. But even among people who love the guy, worked hard, contributed much, and raised a ton of money for him in 2008 and/or 2012, there seemed a sense that his time had come and gone, that had he been a strong candidate and mounted the kind of campaign he should have last time, he would be preparing a reelection campaign rather than contemplating a third try.
In some ways, the real surprise was a few weeks ago when Romney loudly expressed a serious interest in running, without having tested the waters to see how his interest would be received. Rather than the standard and gradual procedure of dipping first a toe in the water to test the temperature, next a whole foot, then stepping in knee deep, Romney immediately plunged in waist deep, only to discover very chilly water. Had he bothered to make a dozen or two phone calls to the kinds of people who fund or run campaigns, he would have heard the sound of one-hand clapping rather than an explosive round of applause. This was just the kind of tone-deafness that hurt Romney so much in his previous bids and that raises questions about whom he listens to.
So who benefits from Romney's decision? For Sens. Ted Cruz and Rand Paul, as well as retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson—and, for that matter, anyone else seeking to win the tea-party spot in the Republican Presidential Final Four competition—this decision will be of little consequence. Romney wasn't going to be competing with Cruz, Paul, or Carson for the affections of Tea Party Nation. Indeed, these camps would have preferred that Romney stayed in to delay the establishment GOP camp from coalescing around one candidate.
Nor will Romney's noncandidacy affect the fortunes of former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, former Sen. Rick Santorum, Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal, or anyone else competing for the social, cultural, and religious-conservative spot in the Final Four. This, too, is a very different group of candidates, seeking the support of a very different pool of voters, who were not likely to gravitate toward Romney.
The difficulty that Romney experienced in 2012, when he was unable to nail down the nomination until well into April, was testament to how resistant these most conservative of Republicans, whether secular or sacred in their orientation, were to Romney. He was not one of their peeps.
The impact is more likely to be felt in the race for the other two Final Four slots: the establishment/center-right bracket and the secular/very conservative bracket—particularly the former.
In the not-so-conservative establishment bracket, former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie both find their waters clarified, with potential donors and fundraisers likely to increase, or at least to sign up faster.
In the final secular/very conservative bracket—considerably more conservative than the establishment/center-right group but not nearly so much as the tea-party and religious conservatives, some candidates will also be greatly affected. Because many are not particularly well-known or well defined, any narrowing of the non-tea-party and nonreligious ranks potentially frees up fundraisers, donors, and activists. This group includes Govs. John Kasich of Ohio, Mike Pence of Indiana, Scott Walker of Wisconsin, and possibly, but less likely, Rick Snyder of Michigan; it also includes Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida and former Texas Gov. Rick Perry. Among the Republicans who are conservative enough that they would never back Christie and really don't want to go along with Bush, they will not have Romney to hide behind, and so some will go ahead and take the plunge with one of these longer-shot candidates.
One really wired-in Republican fundraiser suggested to me Friday that his strategy might be to sign up with Bush at one of the middle-tier major-donor groups, getting on board so as to not offend the front-running Bush. But he would not jump all in, keeping a sharp eye on some of the others, notably Walker, ready to jump on another bandwagon if it looked like Bush would encounter strong intra-party resistance. In fact, this very astute and longtime Republican player questioned whether nominating a Bush would be the best strategy against a Hillary Clinton, and suggested that whichever party did not nominate a Clinton or a Bush could end up making the smarter 2016 play. I'm not sure I buy into that, but think it is an intriguing argument.
At this moment, Walker is getting a lot of buzz among the non-tea-party and nonreligious oriented ranks of Republicans, but whether this is the start of some momentum or just the first flavor-of-the-month of this campaign isn't yet clear. There will be a lot of Republicans eyeballing Walker over the next few weeks, trying to decide whether to take a risk and jump on board with him. For now, it is likely to be more window-shopping than committing to a purchase. Although things appear to be moving faster, especially with Romney out, it's still very early in this process.
