http://www.nationaljournal.com/white-house/known-for-negotiations-james-baker-says-compromise-is-dead-20150309
Known For Negotiations, James Baker Says Compromise Is Dead - NationalJournal.com
Washington is so dysfunctional and toxic that bipartisanship is dead until after the next presidential election, according to former Secretary of State James Baker, who knows a little about the subject.
"I don't accept the fact that we can no longer govern in a bipartisan way, but it will take a lot of work and it isn't going to happen until we've got new stars [leaders] and they're better aligned," Baker told National Journal.
"It's far more ugly today up there, far more destructive and divisive," Baker added. The 84-year-old elder statesman and consummate negotiator is the subject of an adoring PBS documentary, airing March 24, that traces his decades of public service as a White House chief of staff, secretary of State, secretary of the Treasury, and political adviser and personal confidants to three presidents.
James Baker: The Man Who Made Washington Work verges on hagiography. It's so puffy its subtitle might as well read: "St. James of Houston, As Seen By His Many Admiring Subjects." In fact, a couple of modest pinpricks read as though they were hastily added late in the game in an (unsuccessful) attempt to inject some balance into the narrative. Even its subject seems a bit embarrassed by the deification.
Asked point blank if he's as good as the video proclaims, Baker is quick to protest: "No way, absolutely not."
Privately, he knows the hero worship is over the top at times, as when the voice-over breathlessly observes, "Politics in America is about to change," when Baker joins Gerald Ford's election campaign in 1975.
But is he happy with it? "Yeah, of course, you can't be anything but [pleased]," he added, trying and failing to suppress a chuckle.
"But the truth of the matter is you can't succeed in that town without good people around you and (presidential) leadership from the top—and I was lucky to have both."
Baker is loath to criticize the current president, who has quietly sought his counsel now and then on various matters—but he believes the White House has done a poor job of legislative outreach with the not-so-loyal GOP majority on Capitol Hill.
"I don't understand why the Obama White House doesn't spend more time schmoozing with Republicans in Congress," said Baker, who never went home without personally returning every call from a member of Congress that day. "It's not a good deal" for either President Obama or the Republicans. "Bush 41 didn't have a lot of love for [Democratic Senate Majority Leader] George Mitchell, but he dealt with him. Ronald Reagan liked [House Speaker] Tip O'Neill personally but didn't agree with him on anything. And he made every call to a member of Congress we asked for. That built him goodwill up there."
Narrated by NBC newsman Tom Brokaw, the documentary is so lopsided that it ironically does Baker a disservice by diminishing the credibility of the 90-minute production. Even Democratic presidents are included in an all-star cast of contemporaries praising Baker lavishly. "It was an eye-opener to me how courageous he was politically," Jimmy Carter observes.
"I hated it, but he whipped us—he was good at it," Bill Clinton says, referring to Baker's adroit management of the Florida legal challenge that put George W. Bush into the White House.
“
Excellent!"
Rick, Executive Director for Policy
“
Concise coverage of everything I wish I had hours to read about."
Chuck, Graduate Student
“
The day's action in one quick read."
Stacy, Director of Communications
“
I find them informative and appreciate the daily news updates and enjoy the humor as well."
Richard, VP of Government Affairs
“
Chock full of usable information on today's issues. "
Michael, Executive Director
In fairness to the producers—except for Reagan true believers who thought he was too much of a dread pragmatist, and Israeli leaders who deemed him too tough on the Jewish state—Baker hasn't drawn many brickbats in his distinguished diplomatic and political career.
Baker is a Republican-WASP version of the late Robert Strauss, a longtime Texas pal and consummate Democratic deal-maker. Like Strauss, a smooth, resourceful negotiator, Baker savored the art of the possible, forging compromises between warring parties when common ground seemed impossible.
"I learned from Jim how to put your cards on the table," former Secretary of State and Joint Chiefs Chairman Colin Powell recalls, "but only as many as you really have to put on the table."
He's arguably the most successful public servant of his generation, working for three presidents and running four campaigns, three for his close friend and political mentor George H.W. Bush—"Bushie" in Bakerspeak.
He emerged on the national political radar when Ford's chief of staff, Dick Cheney, plucked him from obscurity at the Commerce Department to be Ford's delegate hunter. In a bitter primary struggle, Baker corralled just enough delegates to vanquish Ronald Reagan at the 1976 GOP convention in Kansas City. An appreciative Ford promptly named Baker his campaign manager for the ill-fated race against Carter.
Four years later, as George H.W. Bush's campaign manager, Baker infuriated his old tennis partner by pressing him to get out of the race against Reagan. Bush had no chance of winning, Baker argued, and bowing out early would shorten the odds of Reagan tapping him as vice president. Baker was playing chess, and he was right. Bush was invited onto the ticket, and Baker ended up as Reagan's White House chief of staff.
Despite his impressive political pedigree, Baker wants to be remembered most for his diplomacy as Bush 41's secretary of State. In four years at Foggy Bottom, he assembled the diplomatic and military coalition that forced Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait in 1991. By forging personal bonds with foreign minister Eduard Shevardnadze, Baker helped stabilize Soviet-American relations. When the Berlin Wall fell and the Soviet empire collapsed, Baker led the charge against gloating about democracy's triumph, arguing it would sow resentment in Moscow. And he was the architect of the 1991 Madrid Conference, where warring Mideast factions sat down together in what seemed at the time a giant leap forward.
"Negotiating skills are people skills," Baker argues. "I think a lot of it is people-to-people stuff." But he worries there's not much of that essential commodity at either end of Pennsylvania Avenue these days.
Editor's Note: DeFrank was the collaborator on James Baker's 1995 memoir, The Politics of Diplomacy.

