http://www.nationaljournal.com/congress/harry-reid-goes-off-on-republicans-over-iran-letter-20150309
Harry Reid Goes Off on Republicans Over Iran Letter - NationalJournal.com
Republican senators sent an open letter to Iran's leaders Monday morning, warning them that any deal that President Obama cuts with Iran over the country's nuclear program may be shortlived.
On Monday afternoon, with Sen. Tom Cotton—the freshman Republican who led the effort to write the letter—presiding over the chamber, Minority Leader Harry Reid went off on everyone involved.
"Let's be very clear: Republicans are undermining our commander-in-chief while empowering the Ayatollahs," Reid said from the floor.

He didn't let up: "This letter is a hard slap in the face of not only the United States but our allies. This is not a time to undermine our commander-in-chief purely out of spite," Reid said. "It's unprecedented for one political party to directly intervene in an international negotiation with the sole goal of embarrassing the president of the United States."
The letter, signed by 47 Republican senators and spearheaded by Cotton, suggests that Iran's leaders "may not fully understand our constitutional system" and that any nuclear agreement that is decided upon but not approved by Congress will be considered "as nothing more than an executive agreement between President Obama and Ayatollah Khamenei. The next president could revoke such an executive agreement with the stroke of a pen and future Congresses could modify the terms of the agreement at any time."
Reid repeatedly called the move "unprecedented," citing the work of former senators like Republican Ted Stevens and bipartisan cooperation over Vietnam. For Reid, the reason the letter exists boils down to an innate Republican disgust with Obama.
"The dislike of the president is so intense by Republican leaders that this is what they're doing," he said. "They cannot accept the fact that this good man, Barack Obama, this man with an unusual name, was elected twice by overwhelming margins by the people of this country."
This is just the start for a big week of contentious foreign policy and security issues in the Senate. On Wednesday, Secretary of State John Kerry, who has been leading negotiations with Iran, will come before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. That appearance isn't even about Iran: it's for a hearing on Obama's request for an authorization of military force in the administration's fight against the Islamic State.
