Who Is Happier: Liberals or Conservatives?
It's a question likely to spark plenty of partisan debate: Who is happier – liberals or conservatives?
"Happiness is a complicated thing," explains Sean Wojcik, a doctoral student in psychology and social behavior at the University of California–Irvine. "It doesn't seem fair to pick a winner or a loser."
Still, that hasn't stopped science from trying.
Previous research has found that conservatives – thought to be the curmudgeons of the political world – are actually happier than their liberal counterparts. But the findings, based on self-proclaimed data collected in questionnaires, beg the question: Does saying you're happy mean you're actually happy?
[READ: John Boehner Cries at Taco Bell Event]
An article published Thursday in Science details how Wojcik and colleagues used linguistic analysis software to quantify the emotions contained in more than 9 million words contained in Congressional Record transcripts from 2013.
They mined similar data from more than 47,000 tweets and nearly 4,000 Twitter users with ties to liberal or conservative agendas.
The result: Liberals, in their use of jovial words and happy emoticons, displayed more signs of genuine glee than their friends across the aisle.
"We're not saying conservatism is bad. We're not saying liberalism is good," Wojcik says. "We're only saying that when you look at self-reports, you're only seeing one side of the picture."
Speaking of pictures, the researchers confirmed their findings by using the Facial Action Coding System to spot signs of genuine smiles in 533 photos of U.S. members of Congress and 457 photos of LinkedIn users affiliated with political parties.
[READ: Here's Joe Biden Being Joe Biden With Ash Carter's Wife]
"A genuine smile involves activation in the muscles lifting the corners of the mouth," Wojcik says. "That's what we think of as smiling. Also, in the muscles of the eyes, those crow's feet we make are indicative of enjoyment and happiness."
The study, Wojcik says, aims to question the traditional ways of measuring such a key emotion.
And politicians might want to pay attention, because your happiness can determine things like re-election.
"We need to learn how to best measure happiness," Wojcik says. "People are using it to inform policy."
SEE FOR YOURSELFDuchenne smiling involves action in both muscle groups in the face. It is associated with feelings of real happiness and enjoyment. Non-Duchenne smiling, also called "social" or "deceptive" smiling, is less strongly associated with those emotions, Wojcik says.


