The Money Behind the Bowl Games
As 2014 fades into its waning hours, the dawn of college football bowl game season is upon us. Sports broadcasts for the next 3 1/2 weeks will be packed with 76 teams, 38 bowl games, a newly-formatted national championship and a constant, humbling reminder that every broken tackle, every seemingly-impossible reception and every goal-line stand in these NCAA bowl games will be performed by a group of kids in their late-teens or early-20s.
But rest assured, no matter how old that 18-year-old true freshman makes you feel as he breaks into the end zone on national television, college bowl games have been around a lot longer than you have.
College football first came to the Pasadena Tournament of Roses on Jan. 1, 1902, when two of the best teams from the east and west of the country met in what is considered the first major post-season bowl game. Michigan, which had outscored its opponents 501-0 during the regular season, faced off against Stanford in front of about 8,000 fans.
[READ: Sponsors Pay Big Bucks to Join College Bowl Games]
The inaugural bowl game was far from a closely fought contest. Michigan led Stanford 49-0 when the Stanford coach asked to end the game with eight minutes remaining. The game was so lopsided that the Tournament of Roses didn’t feature football in its annual New Years Day celebration for another 14 years. Polo, chariot races and – believe it or not – ostrich races supplanted college football’s place in Pasadena until 1916.
By 1923, the annual football game’s popularity had grown so much that tournament organizers moved the playing field from Pasadena’s worn Tournament Park field to a newly constructed Rose Bowl stadium. The New Years Day showdown would thereafter be known as the Rose Bowl.
This is how Utah ended its bowl game. pic.twitter.com/mrBQ0tdZiz
The next two decades saw tournament organizers across the country forge some of America’s staple college bowl games. The Festival of Palms Bowl, later renamed the Orange Bowl, kicked off in 1933 in Miami, when the University of Miami narrowly defeated Manhattan College 7-0.
New Orleans hosted the inaugural Sugar Bowl in 1935. El Paso, Texas was home to the first Sun Bowl in 1936 and Dallas held the first Cotton Bowl in 1937.
This was also the first year two American college teams met for a football game not played on American soil. Havana, Cuba hosted the Bacardi Bowl in 1937, in which Auburn and Villanova played to a 7-7 tie. With America’s re-opened diplomatic relations with Cuba, the door is potentially open for Florida’s neighbor to host an NCAA bowl game once more.
[MORE: Oregon QB Marcus Mariota wins Heisman Trophy]
Most wouldn’t automatically associate college bowl games with staggering paychecks, considering the NCAA has strict compensation restrictions for student athletes. But conferences and individual teams can rake in millions of dollars just for bowl game qualification.
Qualification is more important than winning the game itself, from a financial standpoint. Pride, perks and individual prizes are on the line in each and every game. But the winning and losing teams are both paid by the College Football Playoff organization to appear in the games themselves, not necessarily to win them. U.S. News breaks down the money behind the post-season.
There will be 38 standard post-season bowl games played this year, as part of the new College Football Playoff post-season structure. Two of these bowl games – the Rose Bowl and the Sugar Bowl – will be considered semi-final games for the College Football Playoff National Championship, to be held on Jan. 12 at the Dallas Cowboys’ AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas.
So a total of 39 major bowl games will be played this post-season. Each game rewards teams and conferences that have qualified to participate, and some payouts are bigger than others. Below is a schedule for the games, the teams involved and an estimated payout per team, according to Statistic Brain’s number-crunchers.
* – Indicates either a new bowl game or a game whose payout has not yet been announced.** – The ACC has a special contract with the Orange Bowl. The ACC and SEC will each receive $27.5 million.
Payment data obtained from the Alabama Media Group, Statistic Brain and the Huntington Herald-Dispatch; schedule from ESPN.com.
Individual conferences receive big chunks of money when their teams appear in post-season bowl games. The money slants heavily in the favor of college football’s five biggest conferences. But within the conferences themselves, the bulk of post-season conference revenue is usually spread fairly evenly among the conferences' individual teams – even those teams that did not qualify for bowl games.
Each Power 5 conference – the SEC, ACC, Big Ten, Big 12 and Pac-12 – will rake in a base amount of $50 million this post-season, according to the College Football Playoff organization and the Alabama Media Group. The five smaller conferences in the Group of Five collective – American Athletic, Conference USA, Mid-American, Mountain West and Sun Belt conferences – will split a total of $75 million.
Notre Dame, Army, Navy and Brigham Young are categorized as college football conference independents. Notre Dame receives $2.3 million directly, according to the College Football Playoff organization, and the other three split a combined sum of $922,658. Notre Dame also receives an undisclosed sum as part of an agreement with the ACC, according to the Business of College Sports.
[ALSO: A Reason to Watch Every Bowl Game]
Additionally, a conference will receive a $6 million bonus for a team selected to play in a semifinal game. So Alabama, Oregon, Florida State and Ohio State will each earn an extra $6 million for their conferences. Conferences do not receive a financial reward for teams that qualify for the national championship.
Teams playing in the Cotton, Fiesta and Peach Bowls will receive $4 million each for their respective conference. And each conference with a team in those three bowls, the national semifinal games or the national championship will receive $2 million to cover game expenses.
Here’s a breakdown of the top-earning conferences this year, based on conference bowl game payouts:

