The Dark Side of Francis Scott Key
Walter Isaacson, the eminent biographer, gave a dazzling public talk, the 43rd Jefferson Lecture, at the Kennedy Center last night. He seamlessly connected the creative arts and technology, just as his book subjects Benjamin Franklin, Steve Jobs and Albert Einstein did in their breakthroughs. He spoke fondly of the Southern writer he knew and admired, novelist Walker Percy, who walked right up to the edge of practicing medicine.
Almost as a surprise party for the 2,000 people in the concert hall, he related that Lord Byron's daughter, Ada Byron, Countess of Lovelace, was a math genius who wrote the first computer program of sorts during the Industrial Revolution. Who knew? I mean, really. At times history is what they never told you, as we shall see with Francis Scott Key.
[MORE: Cartoons about Congress]
While the color guard was doing its march and we all had to stand for the national anthem, it hit like lighting on Franklin's kite. Isaacson reminded me of a figure in American history, arguably a major figure. Time became relative for a second and I could imagine the author hanging out with Key, author of the opening "Oh say, can you see?" His stirring lyrics, composed in Baltimore, conclude with "the land of the free and the home of the brave."
In an inspired fit in 1814, Key dashed off the lyrics that later became the national anthem. (He did not write the music.) Isaacson and Key share a sheen in their prose or poetry, a talent for seizing a chance to tell a story, and a Southern spark of urbane polish. They would have gravitated toward each other at a cocktail party. Since he wrote his famous lines exactly a century ago, we will be hearing a lot more about Key. Trust me.
In his 30s, Key wrote "The Star-Spangled Banner" the day after witnessing the British naval bombardment of Baltimore's fort and harbor from darkness to dawn. The lawyer-poet, trying to get a client freed, was stuck on a small vessel while the cannonballs flew and raged. The British army had just burned Washington, after all, so holding their navy off in Baltimore may have actually saved the early republic.
[SEE: Political Cartoons]
But here is where their paths part.
Flawed in the end, Key is a study of the haunted contradictions in the American soul. A native of New Orleans, Isaacson was born in an era of peace and prosperity, way beyond the curse of the American "peculiar institution." But slavery stalked Key more as he grew older. A scion of one of the wealthiest slave-owning families in Maryland, Key lived in Washington, but his wealth came from vast holdings of land worked by slaves. Indeed, Maryland was on the map of the cruel South in antebellum America. Just ask Frederick Douglass, who was born into slavery on the state's Eastern Shore.
You might say Key hit his personal high note in 1814. Isaacson might see some powerful rhyme and reason in Key's later years, but I find his career as Washington's district attorney vexing. In Jefferson Morley's fine 2012 book, "Snow-Storm in August," you meet a different, darker Key. He rigorously upheld slavery, doing so at the behest of the president, Andrew Jackson, a close political advisor and a Southern slaveowner himself.
[SEE: Cartoons on President Obama]
Unbelievably, Key was the brother-in-law of Roger B. Taney, also a Marylander, and helped him secure the plum role of chief justice of the United States. Many years later, the ancient Taney authored perhaps the most pitiless Supreme Court decision ever, named for Dred Scott. Taney (pronounced "tawny") declared that black people, free and enslaved, were utterly meaningless in the eyes of the law and could never be citizens. Key's name and prints were not on this landmark decision – he did not live so long as Taney – but there's a rub.
The author of a gleaming, iconic image of America as a land of the free had slavery's blood on his hands and never washed it off.

