Obama Losing Key Staff Members
There is a seemingly endless wave of speculation about how President Barack Obama is losing vital members of his inner circle as he enters the final quarter of his presidency.
But past presidents have shown that chief executives can lose first-class advisers and then repopulate their administrations with very talented staffers even in the final months of a presidency. President Ronald Reagan provided a good example.
Relatively late in his second term, Reagan ordered two major staff upheavals. One was when he named former Sen. Howard Baker of Tennessee as his White House chief of staff in 1987, replacing the abrasive Donald Regan. This was also designed to rejuvenate the White House amid the Iran-contra arms for hostages scandal. It worked, and Reagan climbed back up from his political difficulties. Later, Reagan named Ken Duberstein, a key Baker deputy and former White House liaison to Congress, as White House chief of staff. This was another reshuffling but it worked again. Duberstein presided over White House operations that continued to run smoothly, and Reagan ended his presidency in January 1989 with relatively high job approval ratings.
[READ: Obama's Budget Is a Political Manifesto]
On another front, Reagan promoted Army Gen. Colin Powell to be his White House national security adviser in 1987, and Powell was widely praised for his management ability.
What all this shows is that Obama can maintain a high level of staffing during his waning months in office despite this week's announcement of the departures of senior advisers Dan Pfeiffer and Jennifer Palmieri, coupled with the earlier announcement that presidential counselor John Podesta is also leaving this month. There's been much speculation that there is a brain drain at the White House. But as Reagan showed, this is not necessarily so.
Replacements for Pfeiffer and Palmieri have not been announced.
Brian Deese, a former senior official at the Office of Management and Budget, is to succeed Podesta.


