Obama Finishes 2014 on High Note
President Barack Obama is ending the year on a upswing.
The latest positive sign is that his job approval rating is higher than it's been since August 2013. The latest Gallup poll, conducted over the span of three days, Dec. 27-29, finds that 48 percent of Americans approve of his job performance, and 48 percent disapprove. Obama's job approval rating averaged only 44 percent last week; it had hovered at 42 percent for many months. "Some of this uptick is due to higher ratings among Hispanics, who reacted favorably to Obama's actions on immigration announced in November," said Frank Newport, Gallup's editor in chief. Newport was referring to Obama's decision to stop deporting millions of people who entered the United States illegally. "Some of it may reflect his recent announcement concerning the restoration of relations with Cuba," Newport added in an analysis released to reporters.
See Photos
"Some may reflect Americans' increasingly positive views of the economy and jobs picture. And some may be a 'Christmas' bump, reflecting Americans' more charitable attitudes in and around the Christmas season."
The question is whether the upward swing will continue, and that's unclear.
For his part, Obama has seemed buoyant and confident in recent weeks, and more willing to draw stark contrasts between his policies and those of the GOP.
But so far, the Obama upswing hasn't given him enough momentum to overcome the intense opposition that congressional Republicans express to his policies on immigration, health care, climate change, increasing taxes on the rich and big corporations, and other issues. Nor has the upswing limited GOP leaders' sense that their party has strong momentum of its own after Republican gains in the midterm elections of November. Republicans took control of the Senate and added to their majority in the House.
[READ: Obama Readies for Battle With GOP in 2015]
"I expect them to test Obama and see whether he can be pushed," said Democratic pollster Geoff Garin. "But based on the past few weeks, he's not going to let himself be pushed around." It will make for a combative 2015 in Washington.

