http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/Ken-Walshs-Washington/2014/12/05/hillary-clinton-talks-about-pressures-of-the-presidency
Hillary Clinton Talks About Pressures of the Presidency
Hillary Clinton has gone public with an unusually candid assessment of the problems and pressures that a president must endure as she considers whether to run for the White House in 2016.
At times, Clinton, the prohibitive favorite for the Democratic nomination in opinion polls, sounded like she was soul searching about what to do. "I spent an hour with the president yesterday going over a lot of different issues," she noted Thursday in a Boston speech. "And I was thinking, sitting there in the Oval Office talking, that I've known a lot of presidents over the course of the last many decades ... And it is such a hard job ... It is such a challenging job. And you need people, starting in your family – but going to your friends, beyond a larger circle – who will really be there for you and continue to treat you like a human being."
Her comments, reported in Politico, stirred speculation that she was attempting to avoid an image problem she had during her unsuccessful presidential campaign in 2008 – the perception that she wasn't authentic and regularly reinvented herself.
[ALSO: Hillary Clinton's Potential Presidential Platform]
She said it's vital for a president to stay in touch with "what's real, what's authentic, who you were before you were sworn into office." She added: "Whether it's a man or a woman, the support system is absolutely critical. It used to be, in years past, presidents like the Roosevelts, or Harry Truman ... they would go away, they would go to their ranch or their home or, in Harry Truman's case, he'd get on the presidential yacht and he'd sail down to Key West ... They wanted to breathe; they wanted to think."
Actually, neither Theodore Roosevelt nor Franklin D. Roosevelt had a ranch. TR went to his home at Sagamore Hill on Long Island, New York and took extensive trips outside Washington to clear his mind. FDR went to his estate at Hyde Park, New York and his polio-recuperation center in Warm Springs, Georgia to take breaks from Washington.
See Photos
I wrote about this in my recent book "Prisoners of the White House," in which I discussed how isolation has become a key problem of the modern presidency. Truman called the White House "the great white jail." Bill Clinton, Hillary Clinton's husband, called it "the crown jewel of the federal penitentiary system."
A search for normalcy has been common among the modern presidents, and some have broken out of the White House "bubble" more successfully than others. Bill Clinton, with his vast assortment of friends and associates around the country and his constant interest in popular culture, stayed in touch better than most.
Obama has said that one of the biggest mistakes he made during his first term was getting stuck in the White House for long periods of time. During his second term, he has gotten out of the White House more frequently. But critics say he has surrounded himself with idolizers who are still limiting his outside contacts too much.
[READ: Ted Cruz: Hillary As 'Radical' As Obama]
In her Boston speech to the Massachusetts Conference for Women, Clinton said, "The incoming never ends [as president]; technology connects you around the world instantaneously; you're constantly being asked for opinions and to make decisions. The pace of demands is so intense that you feel like you've got to respond. So the job is unforgiving in many ways, and, therefore, I think you need people around you who will kid you or make fun of you."
Clinton, former first lady and ex-senator from New York, has been meeting with potential campaign managers for a 2016 White House campaign, according to Politico.
On another topic, Clinton expressed support for Obama's new task force to review police tactics, and she praised the Justice Department's decision to investigate the killing of an unarmed African-American man by a white police officer on Staten Island. A grand jury decided Wednesday not to indict the policeman, resulting in protests around the country. Clinton also made sure to praise the police generally. She said many officers do their jobs well, with honor and decency.
White House officials declined to reveal details of the Clinton-Obama meeting Wednesday but an Obama spokesman confirmed that the meeting occurred.
