Obama, Congress Resume Their Bickering
That didn't take long.
After sounding conciliatory for a few days after the November 4 midterm election, President Barack Obama and resurgent Republicans are fighting again.
GOP leaders say they will challenge Obama when his Environmental Protection Agency issues rules designed to limit carbon emissions that cause global warming. Those rules have been in the works for months. Incoming Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell says the rules would decimate the coal industry, which is vital in his home state of Kentucky, shutting down coal-fired power plants in Kentucky and elsewhere. Among the GOP's goals is to deny funding for implementing these regulations. Obama is expected to veto such legislation if it is passed, and it's unlikely that there would be enough votes to override.
[READ: Obama's Latest Climate Goal With China: What It Will Take ]
The Republicans are also pushing legislation to approve the Keystone XL Pipeline to carry oil from Canada to refiners on the Gulf Coast of the United States. The State Department has been considering the pipeline for years, and GOP leaders say the Obama administration has been procrastinating for far too long in deciding what to do.
For his part, Obama pledges to overhaul immigration laws by executive action soon, unless Congress acts legislatively. Fox News is reporting that Obama plans to announce his plans to overhaul the immigration system as early as next week.
GOP legislators say this would be an insult and an unwise circumvention of congressional authority. Some GOP legislators want to pass a law stopping funding for executive orders designed to create new work permits for many undocumented workers. These legislators also want to block efforts to give such workers green cards and legal residency. Obama is considering the expansion of a policy to defer deportations of illegal immigrants who came to the United States as children and of parents of U.S. citizens and of permanent legal residents.
Republican Sens. Ted Cruz of Texas and Mike Lee of Utah are linking the confirmation of Loretta Lynch, Obama's nominee for attorney general, to whether she rejects the legality of executive action to halt deportations.
See Photos
Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich writes on cnn.com that if Obama pursues "the vision of an unrestrained executive ... he is likely to have a very difficult time collaborating with Congress on anything. It will be hard for congressional leadership to work effectively with a president who brazenly disregards the constitutional powers of the legislative branch, as the actions he reportedly is contemplating apparently would. Even if the Republican leadership wants to push forward on areas other than immigration, actions as destructive as the president suggests he will undertake will poison the atmosphere with much of the nation and their representatives on Capitol Hill. Such an outcome also means the country will have that much harder a time facing national and international crises."
American University historian Allan Lichtman told CBS News that Obama's final two years in office will be dominated by his vetoes of legislation from the Republican majority in Congress, executive orders and foreign policy.
The latest Gallup poll finds that, after the midterm election last week in which Republicans took control of the Senate and added to their House majority, 53 percent of Americans want GOP legislators in Congress to have more influence over the country's direction than Obama during the next year. This is a reversal from early 2012 when 46 percent wanted Obama to have more influence and 42 percent favored Congress.
Only 36 percent want Obama to take the lead in setting the country's direction.


