http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/Ken-Walshs-Washington/2014/11/06/obama-gop-read-election-results-differently
Obama, GOP Read Election Results Differently
It's as if President Barack Obama and opposition Republicans saw two different elections this week. And their conflicting perceptions illustrate how far they have to go to find common ground during the final two years of Obama's term in office.
See Photos
Obama is already warning GOP leaders that he intends to bypass them and overhaul the immigration system in fundamental and controversial ways no matter what they think. Obama says he will use his executive powers to reduce deportations, increase the number of work permits, and strengthen border security by year's end. "I have no doubt that there will be some Republicans who are angered or frustrated by any executive action that I may take," Obama told reporters Wednesday. "Those are folks, I just have to say, who are also deeply opposed to immigration reform, in any form, and blocked the House from being able to pass a bipartisan bill."
[ALSO: Wall Street Bullish After Republican Election Win]
Republicans, who took over the Senate and added seats to their House majority in this week's midterm election, reacted with disappointment and bitterness. "It's like waving a red flag in front of a bull to say if you guys don't do what I want, I'm going to do it on my own," said Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., who is in line to become Senate majority leader in January. "I hope he won't do that," McConnell added, because it "poisons the well."
GOP leaders say the midterms showed deep opposition to Obama and his priorities, and they argue that the country is eager for the adoption of a more conservative agenda. Obama says GOP gains in the midterms were an anomaly caused by relatively low turnout and the fact that so many Senate races were in conservative states.
The next big moment for Obama will be his State of the Union address in January, when he will set forth his agenda for 2015. In the meantime, he is likely to use his executive powers to bypass Congress not only on immigration but on other issues, White House advisers say.
See Photos
It's been clear for months that voters are in a sour mood, but this week's balloting indicates just how far Americans have sunk into pessimism. This is the political climate in which Obama, the Democrats and the Republicans will be operating. And there appears to be little interest in angering core constituents, who are often the key to political victory in volatile times. This dynamic hardens the positions of nearly everyone, no matter how much the politicians give lip service to the need for conciliation and compromise.
Exit polls on Election Day show that the mood across the country is thoroughly negative. Only 31 percent of voters believe the nation is headed in the right direction while 65 percent say the country is on the wrong track, according to exit polling by NBC News.
[READ: Republicans Win Back U.S. Senate]
Fifty-four percent disapprove of President Obama's job performance, and 79 percent disapprove of the job performance of Congress, according to NBC. Economic anxiety runs deep. Seventy-six percent of Americans say their economic situation has deteriorated or is the same as it was when Obama became president during the recession of 2009, according to the Washington Post-ABC News poll.
Only 19 percent of Americans are satisfied with the federal government, the lowest rating ever in the Gallup poll. Only one in five voters trust the government to do the right thing, according to CNN.

