http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/Ken-Walshs-Washington/2014/10/21/obama-aligns-himself-with-democrats
Obama Aligns Himself With Democrats
With the midterm election two weeks away, President Obama has handed Republicans another weapon to use against Democratic candidates for the Senate.
Obama told the Rev. Al Sharpton Monday in a radio interview that he doesn't take it personally when Democratic candidates don't want to campaign with him despite their shared party affiliation. "The bottom line is, though, these are all folks who vote with me," Obama said. "They have supported my agenda in Congress."
[ALSO: Democrats, Republicans Both Trying to Win Over Women Ahead of the Midterms]
The president added: "So this isn't about my feelings being hurt. These are folks who are strong allies and supporters of me and, I tell them--I said, 'You know what? You do what you need to do to win. I will be responsible for making sure that our voters turn out.'"
The problem for Democratic Senate candidates in conservative states such as Alaska, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana and North Carolina is that they have been trying to separate themselves from Obama, and now the president is saying they are really his allies. This may not have much effect on core Democratic voters, who are presumably planning to vote for their party nominees, or core Republican voters, who are likely to be loyal to Republican nominees. But it could hurt Democratic candidates with independent voters who have turned against Obama and don't want members of Congress to walk in lockstep with him.
Take Quiz
Along the same lines, Obama recently said that, while his name won't be on the November 4 ballot, "every single one" of his policies will be on the ballot, and he urged support for fellow Democrats. This was immediately used by the GOP against Democratic candidates in key races, which is expected to happen again in response to the president's latest remarks.
Only about 41.5 percent of Americans approve of Obama's job performance, according to the Gallup poll.
The Senate is currently controlled by Democrats and the House is controlled by Republicans.
