http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/Ken-Walshs-Washington/2014/10/10/ebola-becoming-political-issue
Ebola Becoming Political Issue
The Ebola scare is becoming an explosive political issue.
While other problems have drawn headlines in recent weeks, such as the crises in Syria and Iraq and ongoing economic anxiety at home, it's Ebola that could have more impact on the nation's sense of well-being and its confidence that government will keep the country safe.
Some critics say the potential spread of the disease into the United States should be a concern of the first order. Ebola has killed nearly 4,000 people in West Africa, and U.S. efforts to fight the disease are coming under intense scrutiny. Among those who are warning that President Barack Obama and his administration aren't doing enough to fight Ebola are Sens. Ted Cruz of Texas and Rand Paul of Kentucky and Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana, all of them possible 2016 Republican presidential candidates.
[ALSO: Walker vs. Cruz on Gay Marriage]
See Photos
This week, Thomas Eric Duncan of Liberia died of Ebola in Dallas after he traveled to Texas to visit his family. Some critics questioned whether he had received adequate treatment, raising more questions about whether the United States is ready to deal with a widespread outbreak.
Tom Frieden, director of the federal Centers for Disease Control, sounded an alarm Thursday. "In the 30 years I've been working in public health, the only thing like this has been AIDS," Frieden told the World Bank and International Monetary Fund. "We have to work now so this is not the world's next AIDS."
And public concern is strong. The latest Pew poll finds that 41 percent of Americans say they had "not too much confidence" or "no confidence at all" that the government could prevent a serious Ebola outbreak in the United States. An NBC News online survey finds that 58 percent of Americans support a ban on incoming flights from West African countries where the virus is most prevalent, such as Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone. The poll was taken just before Duncan died of Ebola, which presumably will create even more anxiety about the disease.
The government announced plans this week to accelerate screening of travelers from West Africa at five U.S. airports--New York's Kennedy Airport, Chicago's O'Hare, Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson, Newark Liberty and Washington Dulles, to prevent the spread of the disease The extra procedures will include asking travelers whether they have been exposed to anyone who has contracted Ebola and taking travelers' temperatures to determine if they are running a fever, a sign of Ebola. "It will give us the ability to isolate, evaluate and monitor travelers as needed," President Barack Obama said Wednesday during a conference call with state and local officials. "And we'll be able to collect any contact information that's necessary."
Obama also has ordered about 4,000 U.S. troops to fight Ebola in areas of Africa most affected by the virus.
