Menendez Must Resign So Effort to Derail Obama Iran Talks Can Live - US News
He has not yet been found to have broken any laws or violated any of the rules of the chamber in which he serves. He has not yet been charged with any wrongdoing. Nevertheless, for the good of the country, U.S. Sen. Robert Menendez should resign.
That it has come to this should be no surprise to anyone following his case with even a passing interest. The United States Department of Justice has had the New Jersey Democrat under investigation for more than two years, as American Commitment’s Phil Kerpen thoroughly documents here. The who and what of that investigation, it needs to be said, is not nearly as important as the why.
To those who have experienced the way the seamier side of business is sometimes done in the nation’s capital, this is not a surprise. The linkage between Menendez’s opposition to the moves President Barack Obama is making towards Iran and the announcement late last week that an indictment is likely coming soon is clear. It doesn’t rise to the level of pushing someone in front of an incoming subway train exactly, but it is still a dirty business.
[MORE: Political Cartoons on Iran]
It is by no means a stretch to suspect Obama administration officials, perhaps obliquely and certainly indirectly, might have used the fact of the investigation and the possibility of indictment as a way to get Menendez – who until the GOP took over in 2015 was chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee – to focus on things other than Iran. He certainly picked an odd time to have walked away from a tough, bipartisan Iran sanctions bill he co-authored with Illinois Republican Mark Kirk, which is the last time this subject appeared in this column.
On Iran, Menendez is largely right and Obama, if the leaks about where his efforts to reach agreement with Iran are going have any basis in fact, is wrong. The president is not above throwing sharp elbows to keep his own team in line – and there is little reason to believe, with so much at stake, that having to sideline a member of his own party is not something he would do ruthlessly and with relish.
Obama is unusual in that he continually fails to play by the rules established by the U.S. Constitution and more than 200 years of self-government. He likes to push the envelope yet, unlike Presidents Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter before him, there isn’t a single member of his party who appears willing to call him out on it. Contrast that with Presidents Ronald Reagan or either George Bush, all of whom had to face down scads of Republicans calling for their heads anytime they stepped out of line or tried to change the way business was done.
Obama must be stopped. Few, if any, people believe the man who promised that when Obamacare became the law of the land anyone who liked their health care could keep it when he says Iran will not be allowed to obtain the ability to manufacture nuclear weapons on his watch.
[GALLERY: Barack Obama Cartoons]
If Menendez has been threatened, or anyone close to him or any of the potential witnesses have heard even the slightest dangling of a hint that a deal could be worked out to slow walk or stop the investigation completely in exchange for the senator backing off his support for sanctions against Iran, they should come forward and say so.
The problem here is that this whole Iran business is life or death for America, possibly for Israel and, if that is the case, for tens of millions of people. A prolonged trial will only hamper Menendez’s ability to take the president on over Iran. His usefulness as a senator is at an end – and when it is most needed.
He may not be guilty of anything. Indeed, we presume him to be innocent of the charges not yet filed against him, but it doesn’t matter. The fight to stop Iran from become a nuclear power needs to take center stage. A trial that happens at the same time he plays a lead role in trying to derail any deal could only weaken the entire opposition; it certainly won’t make it stronger. For the good of the country, to make Congress better able to resist whatever Obama may have planned to help reach an unfavorable (to the U.S.) pact with Iran, he should resign his seat.
If he’s guilty, he will have to resign anyway, but probably too late to do any good. If he’s not guilty, his resignation will come at considerable cost. It would be a noble sacrifice, the kind people used to write songs about a long time ago. Either way, his ability to fight a president of his own party that is preparing to sell out the West is fatally compromised and he should go.

