http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2015/02/10/convicted-saudi-blogger-deserves-the-support-of-journalists
Convicted Saudi Blogger Deserves the Support of Journalists - US News
Excuse me for getting on my “high horse” but sometimes things go on in the world on that give such grievous offense to human dignity that silence is not an option. And when good people speak out, the only option is to join them.
Raif Badawi is a blogger who lives in Saudi Arabia. In 2013, because he was found guilty of committing such heinous crimes as running a website called “Free Saudi Liberals,” insulting Islam through electronic channels and other acts of dissent and free expression, a Saudi court sentenced him to seven years in prison and 600 lashes – which is exactly what you think it is.
A year later an appeals court imposed a harsher sentence, increasing the penalties Badawi faced to a more than quarter-million dollar fine, 10 years in prison and 1,000 lashes – to be delivered once each week in 50-lash increments in order that no permanent harm would come to him. Thank heaven for small favors.
[READ: Standing in Solidarity]
Meanwhile not so much as a hashtag out of the White House, President Barack Obama or Secretary of State John Kerry on Badawi’s behalf. The U.S. Department of State has lodged an objection, but they don’t seem to be putting a lot of “oomph” into it.
With a new king on the throne and the Islamic State group just a heartbeat away, the Saudi government may have a bit more on its mind than the plight of one unfortunate blogger. But consider what a show of good faith it would be, not to mention a way to make nice with the U.S. and the other Western democracies, to let Badawi leave the country.
While most people following the story have only gone so far as to engage in so much hand-wringing, seven of the nine members of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, which according to its website is “an independent, bipartisan U.S. federal government commission, the first of its kind in the world, dedicated to defending the universal right to freedom of religion or belief abroad,” are putting their money where their mouths are. These members have, in their individual capacities, written the Saudis volunteering to take 100 lashes each in Badawi’s place.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on the Middle East]
It’s an example worth emulating, especially for members of the media. The cruel and inhumane punishment Badawi faces is one that could easily be applied to any of us should we choose to live and work in a country lacking the commitment to freedom of speech and freedom of the press that is present in the United States.
When I first learned of the letter’s existence I planned to do a column on it, asking why more people had not stepped up on Badawi’s behalf. In a note to Princeton University professor Robbie George, an acquaintance who is one of the nine commissioners, I asked him to add my name to the list of those willing to take part of Badawi’s punishment. He generously passed my note along to Katrina Lantos Swett, the commission’s current chair and president of the Lantos Foundation for Human Rights and Justice (named for her father, former Rep. Tom Lantos, D-Calif., the only Holocaust survivor ever elected to the U.S. Congress).
In her response note, Swett informed me there was in fact an online petition – Allow Us to Take Lashes for Raif Badawi – that people could sign. I did, but not before scrolling through the list of 500 signatories to see how many names I recognized as belonging to working journalists. Sad to say, there weren’t many.
[READ: Saudi King Salman Quickly Makes His Mark]
That, of course, raises another point: Why are advocates for international religious freedom the ones stepping up and speaking out in Badawi’s defense instead of members of the Fourth Estate? I suppose one answer might be that the job of a journalist is to cover a story, which means the need exists to displace personal passions in favor of objectivity. There are probably people already making that argument – except it’s as hollow as a chocolate Easter bunny. No one is being asked to take a position on the quote crime; it’s the punishment … excessive, inhumane, barbaric … that is getting the attention and the inexplicable silence of those who use words for a living.
Anyone who considers himself or herself a journalist worthy of the name ought to sign the petition. The Saudis, and indeed the barbarians running rampant throughout the Middle East and the world’s other hot spots, need to know that people are watching and that accountability is an option. Names on paper may not set Badawi free, but they do let people know judgment and justice grounded in our common idea of human dignity are possible.
