Protect or Collect?
Tensions are high in the Big Apple after a Staten Island grand jury concluded that no indictment should be brought against the New York City police officer accused of having caused the death of Eric Garner in July.
It's a tough call. The incident was captured on a cellphone video that appears to show white police officer Daniel Pantaleo using a banned chokehold to bring down Garner, an African-American man who was reportedly asthmatic and weighed some 350 pounds. It took four officers to bring him down during the attempted arrest, meaning it’s not easy to determine whether the police employed excessive or unnecessary force.
It is true that, coming on the heels of the decision of a Missouri grand jury not to indict Officer Darren Wilson in the shooting death of Michael Brown, the nation’s police are under the public microscope. But the police should be getting more respect and more understanding from those they have sworn to protect. Ask yourself: In what other profession is a person required to constantly outthink everyone else around them, to predict what they might do and respond accordingly, knowing that the only reward for guessing right is being able to go home at the end of the day? Especially when guessing wrong could mean you don’t get to go home at all, but instead are sent to the morgue.
[READ: No Charges for NYPD Cop in Garner Chokehold Case]
Like with what happened in Ferguson, Missouri, there is a racial component to the Garner case, and that makes it newsworthy. But there is another aspect of to the case that requires us all to rethink what the role of the police in our community should be.
Too often, police are being employed to raise revenue for cash-strapped cities all over the nation or to protect the flow of money going to the government. Garner’s alleged crime, the thing that brought him to the attention of the police, was selling loose cigarettes – a victimless crime unless one considers the laws preventing it are on the books in order to safeguard the tax receipts going into federal, state and municipal coffers.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on President Barack Obama ]
We should be more circumspect about what we want the police to do. Is their function to protect our lives and our property or to assess fines for parking offenses and engage in other activities that help cities find the extra money they need to operate?
Garner’s death is a tragedy. The Justice Department is considering whether his civil rights may have been violated and will bring a case if they conclude they were. A civil suit is in the works against Pantaleo. The system, in that sense, is working.
But we really need to ask why four police officers were called on to arrest a man whose alleged crime was against the state – a tax crime, if such a thing actually exists – and not against another person or private property. There are too many laws, too many regulations with criminal penalties attached for any of us to be truly protected against a Kafkaesque experience with the criminal justice system. It’s a question that members of the Senate should raise with federal prosecutor Loretta Lynch once the hearings to determine whether she should be the next U.S. attorney general start.

