The Symptom, Not the Problem
In Washington even the inevitable can still come as a surprise. Such is the case with the resignation of Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel, which President Barack Obama announced Monday.
He was, from the start, the wrong man for the job. In the U.S. Senate he was a relative dove among a generally hawkish GOP caucus. Obama wanted him because he would pursue the president’s objectives, namely the downsizing of the U.S. military to its lowest levels since the period just before the onset of World War II and do it with zeal.
[SEE: Defense Spending Cartoons]
Obama is the modern version of an isolationist. He favors surgical strikes over long term commitments, a policy that has led to disaster in the Middle East where the U.S. is now essentially powerless to stop the spread of the Islamic State group or force an agreement with Iran over its nuclear enrichment program that is not a one-sided victory for the Mullahs in Tehran. In Iraq there will once again be boots on the ground in short order and Congress will be forced to go along because, regrettably, it is the right thing to do.
Just as in Tom Hagen was, in “The Godfather,” not a wartime consigliore, Chuck Hagel was not a wartime Defense Secretary. He has all the wrong instincts and could not be counted on as things get hot – something that is now all but inevitable.
[CHECK OUT: Editorial Cartoons on Barack Obama]
For all that, however, his failure is not his fault. It is the fault of the president who chose him. Every president must undergo on the job training in the foreign affairs arena. Usually it comes in the form of a compressed course on the graduate level. Not so Obama who seems to never have risen up from the remedial level – and in this field there are no social promotions.
The world is dangerous. Obama’s mistakes, made without an overall philosophy and, one hopes, with the best of intentions are not ones from which the nation will easily recover. We are still dealing with Jimmy Carter’s blunders from Iran to Nicaragua and from Afghanistan to the Korean Peninsula. Obama’s lasting legacy will be the problems and conflicts he left for his successors to deal with and hopefully resolve. Chuck Hagel isn’t to blame for any of that even though the nation is probably better off that he is gone from the Pentagon.

