http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2014/07/30/obama-fails-on-us-strategic-military-defense
Obama Fails on U.S. Strategic Military Defense - US News
While President Obama has apparently been busy correcting for his slice, the terrorist group Hamas has been shooting rockets at Israel. It’s a disturbing contrast: America’s closest ally in the Middle East is under constant attack from those sworn to obliterate it, as the leader of the world’s most powerful country plays golf. And unlike Israel’s leadership, Obama seems unwilling to take the necessary steps to ensure that the United States and its citizens are protected from similar attacks around the world.
This is a curious time in world events. Right now, rebels backed by Syria are attempting the overthrow of the U.S.-backed government of Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki in Iraq at the same time that Syrian rebels are attempting to overthrow the dictatorship of President Bashar Assad. Iran is in the midst of negotiations with the Western powers over its nuclear program to lift costly sanctions supposedly in return for stopping production of enriched uranium that could be used in nuclear weapons. But the Iranians are still resisting a full halt to their enrichment program.
It is possible that the attacks by Hamas are part of a coordinated effort to keep the government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu from undertaking military action against the many bad actors surrounding Israel in the Middle East. The fact is, Israel’s enemies have a healthy respect for its military might, as the country has demonstrated it is more than capable of defending itself and more than willing to take proactive steps to prevent its enemies from increasing the threats they pose.
[SEE: Cartoons on the Middle East]
It’s a model that the U.S. would do well to emulate. Over the last decade Israel has established what has been referred to as an “Iron Dome,” a defensive system that can bring rockets and missiles down before they can do much damage.
According to The Jerusalem Post, the dome is responsible for recently intercepting rockets headed toward metropolitan Tel Aviv. Not every rocket has been stopped, but many have – more than enough, frankly, for the international community to take notice. It’s an important lesson on the use of radar, of interceptors, and on the ability of technology to preserve the peace and to create a defensive system that, at the very least, protects the status quo from changing in an adverse manner.
President Ronald Reagan first spoke to the American people about his Strategic Defense Initiative in the early 1980s. The mainstream media and many experts derided Reagan’s support of the proposed antiballistic missile system that would be designed to shoot down airborne nuclear threats targeting the U.S. Yet, though SDI was never implemented, Reagan forced the Soviets to reckon with this potential advance in U.S. capabilities and enabled the nation to dramatically improve its already advanced antiballistic missile technology for use in more local or regional theaters.
[MORE: Cartoons on Syria]
In fact, during the Gulf War in the early ’90s, the U.S. military showed that it could bring down missiles in flight. Without question, it is a technology worth pursuing. Yet because of the Obama administration’s preference for cutting spending at the Pentagon no matter the impact on America’s national security, the efforts to defend against missile attacks are quietly being consigned to a dusty shelf at a time when airborne threats around the world are increasing.
The downing of a Malaysia Airlines flight last week over eastern Ukraine is now generally thought to be the work of a high-altitude missile. Russia recently conducted a test of air-launched cruise missiles. North Korea is building warheads. Iran, as previously mentioned, still refuses to put an end to its efforts to enrich uranium. The international press occasionally reports that Iranian-built missiles are being installed in Venezuela. If they are really there, then they could potentially target a good part of the continental U.S.
Our protection from threats like these may be porous. Joint Army/Navy Transportable Radar Surveillance and the Ground-Based Midcourse Defense and the Patriot Air and Missile Defense systems – an earlier version of which was deployed during the Gulf War – are critical for the nation’s future security. All could potentially be impacted in one way or another as the Obama administration moves ahead with plans to shrink the U.S. Army to the smallest it’s been since before World War II.
[SEE: Cartoons on President Obama]
Thanks to budget cuts and canceled programs, there may be, for example, only 12 TPY-2 radars online, six less than the 18 military planners determined were needed in 2011 and several of which are dedicated to training and are not necessarily operational. The GMD is under assault by budget-cutters and people who say it is also not needed because there are other things in the pipeline – which may be more technically refined but which will not be ready for years, if ever.
American security experts estimate that more than 6,300 ballistic missiles are loose in the world, meaning they are not controlled by the U.S., NATO, China or Russia. And this number is expected to increase to around 8,000 by the year 2020.
Of course, even one loose missile would be alarming enough but now there are thousands increasingly falling into the hands of countries and terrorists hostile to the U.S. (let alone the random madman with an axe to grind). Yet though the threat is increasing, it seems that we are increasingly unprepared to meet it as a nation.
