http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/washington-whispers/2015/03/12/three-minute-briefing-tehran-rebukes-gops-monsters-of-hawk-letter-but-it-makes-cotton-a-star
Three-Minute Briefing: Tehran Rebukes GOP’s 'Monsters of Hawk' Letter, but it makes Cotton a Star
Welcome to Thursday, the 71st day of the year and the eighth day since Attorney General Eric Holder issued a report detailing systemic, abusive racism within the Ferguson, Missouri, civic structure, including its police department and court system. Protesters upset at the fatal police shooting of an unarmed black teenager last August were skeptical a Justice Department investigation would get results since the white cop who shot the teen wasn’t charged. But Holder’s unflinching report hit like a Floyd Mayweather uppercut: several top officials, including Ferguson’s police chief and city manager, got the boot, the start of what’s likely to be a thorough civic housecleaning. Now, however, the city is reeling after two local police officers were shot and seriously wounded during protests there early Thursday, undermining months-long protests, empowering Holder’s critics and destabilizing his moves to dismantle a corrupt system. Here’s your Three-Minute Briefing, all the News You Can Use in 180 seconds or less:
GOP to Khamenei: You’re Welcome: The shock waves continue from the letter 47 Republican senators signed and sent to Iran’s leaders about their talks with the U.S. over nuclear weapons. Iran’s Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei put a supreme beatdown on the lawmakers, saying the letter shows “the collapse of political ethics” in America and suggested that it, coupled with “Zionist clown” Israeli Prime MInister Benjamin Netanyahu’s bombastic speech to Congress, has gone a long way towards poisoning the negotiating well between Tehran and Washington.
King Cotton: Last week, Sen. Tom Cotton of Arkansas was a nobody, a second-string freshman Republican from a small Southern state. Now, after spearheading the open letter to Tehran, Cotton’s the GOP’s Top Hawk, and some think that suddenly qualifies him to be president. A pal back in the Arkansas Statehouse introduced a bill that would let him run for the White House and Senate re-election at the same time; Bobby Jindal and Rick Perry said they both would have cosigned the letter if they were senators and one senator who did, Florida’s Marco Rubio, is using it to scrape up some money for a possible 2016 presidential campaign.
[READ: GOP Senators Probably Broke Law With Iran Letter]
Power to the People: Cotton’s move, which publications ranging from the New York Post to the Los Angeles Times have described as just this side of treasonous, has triggered an even fiercer backlash online. On Twitter, the hashtag #47Traitors is still trending strong, and a petition on the White House home page has pushed past 160,000, signatures in less than a week; the 100,000-signers-in-30-days threshold is supposed to automatically trigger a response from President Barack Obama.
Tweet of the Morning - The greeks don’t want no freaks:
GOP Senate Frat Boys. #Iran #Obama #SAE #47Traitors pic.twitter.com/S52GlR8xIS
Ready or Not: Though she’s had eight years to prepare, and review her mistakes from the last go-around, the Washington Post reports that some top Democrats who are Ready for Hillary aren’t sure she’s ready to run for president in 2016. Exhibit A: her insular, defensive and slightly tone-deaf handling of the whole email scandal. Surrogates were ready to defend Clinton, but without an official campaign structure, or official declaration of her candidacy, they didn’t have a narrative, and what should have been a nick became an open wound that needed PR surgery by a woman not known for her gifted hands in that particular arena.
Here She Comes: Now that Clinton’s publicly addressed the email thing, Dems have moved from concerned to anxious about her campaign in waiting. That’s probably because the Dems really don’t have any choice for the top of the 2016 ticket, at least not yet. Clinton’s party allies did a really great job ensuring she had a “clear field” to the nomination she hasn’t decided she wants yet, locking down supporters and scaring off any major challengers. But that sword cuts both ways: It effectively put the Dems’ eggs in one tightly woven, slightly paranoid basket.
Waiting to Exhale: Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell announced this week that Loretta Lynch, Obama’s pick to succeed outgoing Attorney General Eric Holder, will finally get a confirmation vote in the full Senate, after waiting 17 weeks and change – the longest delay any AG nominee has faced in modern history. The Hill’s David Hawkings writes that Lynch is the first black woman to be nominated for the post, but she’ll probably make more history, and not in a good way: She’ll face the closet vote for the job in history, mostly because Republicans have turned her nomination into yet another fight over Obama’s immigration policy. And the fact that it’s no longer considered unusual, or outrageous, isn’t a good sign for the republic.
Dixie Chicken: Five days ago, 70,000 people gathered in Alabama to mark the 50th anniversary of Bloody Sunday. Obama, in perhaps his finest speech as president, that day issued a clarion call to restore key parts of the Voting Rights Act voided by the Supreme Court. Reporters from around the world covered the event, which was also broadcast live on television. But Sen. Richard Shelby, an Alabama Republican, is kind of clueless about what happened and why it matters, and doesn’t know what all this voting rights restoration stuff, which affects more than a quarter of the people he represents, is all about anyway: "I'm not on the Judiciary Committee. I don't follow that every day," said Shelby. "You probably need to talk to one of the people who would do the initial action there.”
Your Morning VIdeo: Economics 101 in three minutes from Robert Reich, with illustration:
Stat of the Day: Ratio of engineers to lawyers graduated each year in Japan: 10:1. In the United States: 1:10 (courtesy Harper’s Index).
Duly Noted: In 1664, England's King Charles II granted an area of land on the East Coast of present-day North America known as New Netherland to his brother James, the Duke of York. In 1912, the Girl Scouts of the USA had its beginnings as Juliette Gordon Low of Savannah, Georgia, founded the first American troop of the Girl Guides. In 1955, legendary jazz musician Charlie "Bird" Parker died in New York at age 34. In 1968, President Lyndon B. Johnson won the New Hampshire Democratic primary, but Sen. Eugene McCarthy of Minnesota placed a strong second. In 1985, conductor Eugene Ormandy, director of the Philadelphia Orchestra for more than four decades, died at age 85.
Happy Birthday Pisces: Playwright Edward Albee (87), politician, diplomat and civil rights activist Andrew Young (83), actress Barbara Feldon, Agent 99 from TV’s “Get Smart” (82), broadcast journalist Lloyd Dobyns (79), jazz vocalist Al Jarreau (75), showbiz legend Liza Minnelli (69), Mitt Romney, former Massachusetts governor and 2012 Republican presidential candidate (68), singer-songwriter James Taylor (67), former Sen. Kent Conrad, a North Dakota Democrat (67), rock singer-musician Bill Payne of Little Feat (66), author Carl Hiaasen (62), singer Marlon Jackson of The Jackson Five (58), “Law & Order: Criminal Intent” actor Courtney B. Vance (55), former MLB All-Star Darryl Strawberry (53), actress Julia Campbell (53), actor Aaron Eckhart (47), CNN reporter Jake Tapper (46), Blur rocker Graham Coxon (46).
