http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/washington-whispers/2015/02/18/last-call-in-his-big-foreign-policy-rollout-speech-jeb-commits-unforced-errors
Last Call: In His Big Foreign-Policy Rollout Speech, Jeb Commits Unforced Errors
In his big foreign-policy rollout, Jeb Bush, presumed Republican presidential candidate, bungled facts, mispronounced names and generally looked like what he apparently is: a rusty former governor trying to get his mind around something he’s not used to handling.
[READ: Jeb Bush Attempts Middle East Balancing Act]
Rather than outline a bold foreign-policy vision for America, The Smart One served up platitudes and warmed-over, hawkish national-defense talking points that he might have taken from his older brother’s foreign-policy freezer. No surprise, considering his foreign policy team is stacked with insiders from his father’s and brother’s administration – the “neocons” some analysts blame for creating conditions that gave birth to Islamic State group.
Even the snap reviews on Twitter were bad:
What most people don't know is that during speech prep, Jeb Bush confused Boko Haram with Procol Harum. Truth.
RT CNNPolitics: Jeb Bush attempted to tackle some of the major foreign policy issues in a speech on Wednesday … https://t.co/uMhWUGPlt3
Jeb Bush, allegedly the "smart brother," gives a rambling foreign policy speech reminiscent of Sarah Palin http://t.co/jr0oCWspwI
When your name appears in the same sentence as Sarah Palin’s – and without the words “is not like” separating them – something’s gone horribly wrong in your day.
To be fair, not every politician at the presidential level hits it out of the foreign-policy park; his brother certainly didn’t in 1999, stumbling badly in a gotcha-style interview with a Boston TV reporter. During the 2012 Republican presidential candidates’ foreign-policy debate in South Carolina, there was so much catchphrase gibberish being spouted by the likes of Herman Cain and Rick Perry that moderators Scott Pelley and Major Garrett practically needed a translator.
Let’s not forget the most recent example: Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker’s attempt to go one-on-one with ABC’s Martha Raddatz, one of the better national security reporters in Washington. Judging by the tape, he should have stayed on the bench:
One of the common denominators here: Perry and Walker, like Jeb and W. before him, are or were governors, who don’t spend a lot of time thinking about foreign policy, save for the odd trade trip. But there are at least a few good reasons the bar’s set higher – or should be – for Jeb Bush, and not just because he put it there himself.
As the son and brother of two presidents, Jeb had backstage passes, of a sort, to the Gulf War in 1991, the Afghanistan war in 2002 and the invasion of Iraq in 2003, or – at minimum – heard his dad or his bro kvetch about them over the barbecue grill or at Thanksgiving dinner. Even if he didn’t, Jeb only had to pick up the phone and call one of them the night before Wednesday’s speech, and it seems like his big brother isn’t doing all that much these days.
[ALSO: GOP Donors Provide Cover for Bush on Immigration]
Judging by his big-name foreign-policy lineup, Bush at the very least had access to W. and Poppy Bush’s Rolodexes: heavy GOP hitters like John Negroponte to Michael Chertoff stock Jeb’s bench. Given that national security tops the worry list of most Americans – and that each day seems to bring a freshly videotaped, highly shocking Islamic State group atrocity to amp up that concern – it’s surprising that Bush’s nat-sec crew let him take a public shakedown cruise in a very leaky boat.
There’s still plenty of time for Bush to recover; the first primary is roughly a year away, and it’s a safe bet his team won’t let him repeat the same mistakes. He also did well in a q-and-a format, which seems to be his public-appearance strong suit.
Yet if the experts are right, and we’re looking at a potential Hillary Clinton-Jeb Bush matchup, Jeb will be going head-to-head with a woman who, as first lady, had White House access, and who, as secretary of state, probably knows, on a first-name basis, every world leader who matters.
If his apparent desire to assume leadership of the free world isn’t enough to get Jeb back into his briefing books, then the prospect of a foreign-policy debate with Hillary Clinton should.
