http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/washington-whispers/2015/02/11/three-minute-briefing-despite-pressure-to-change-plans-netanyahu-doubles-down
Three-Minute Briefing: Despite Pressure to Change Plans, Netanyahu Doubles Down
Happy Hump Day, the 42nd day of the year and the 10th month since President Barack Obama sent troops to Western Africa to assist in the fight against the Ebola virus sweeping through that part of the world. Today Obama will announce he’s bringing those troops home, then announce the next steps he’ll take to fight the virus abroad; seems like only yesterday some lawmakers were ready to block funding for it amid a national hysteria that the virus could reach our shores. Turns out while Congress was worried about importing a deadly bug from Africa, the bigger viral threat was home-grown: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says the measles outbreak in the U.S. has continued to grow. Here’s your Three-Minute Briefing, all the News You Can Use in 180 seconds or less, or your next one’s free:
[READ: Leahy, Most Senior Senator, to Skip Netanyahu Speech]
Tweet This: The pressure’s building on Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to change his mind about addressing Congress next month – including a growing Democratic boycott, critical comments from Israeli leaders and a well-placed jab by President Obama. So instead of backing down, Netanyahu turned it up to 11: On Tuesday he went on the Twitters to build support for his speech, declaring that he wants war with Iran and not with the White House, sort of:

I'm determined to speak before Congress to stop Iran. RETWEET if I have your support. pic.twitter.com/5qTb89xf2i
Later, Bibi: On the other hand, the Congressional Black Caucus isn’t impressed with the prime minister’s protocol diss of Obama, so its members are boycotting the speech en masse while calling for meetings with Israeli diplomats and even Netanyahu himself. Their threat dials up the pressure on Netanyahu, who’ll face an image problem if he follows through on his vow: He’ll be speaking to an overwhelmingly white, male and Republican audience in the era of the first black president.
Sana’a Has Fallen: With nightmares of Benghazi dancing in their heads, the State Department is shutting down its embassy in Yemen after religious extremists took control of the capital city and forced out the nation’s president, a U.S. ally in the fight against al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula. The embassy isn’t being evacuated, but Americans in Yemen are being advised to get out of the country ASAP because AQAP is active in the area.
Feeding the Buzz: In the second of back-to-back digital media interviews, Obama sat down with Buzzfeed, the online news and entertainment web site. During the wide-ranging interview, he defended his legacy on health care and gay rights, said he was frustrated he couldn’t do more and sent a message to Hillary Clinton: Two terms for a black president didn’t just happen, and she’ll have to earn the trust of his coalition.
"How Many F's in 'Schadenfreude'?" NBC News put its lyin’ anchorman, Brian Williams, on ice yesterday, suspending him for six months without pay while launching an investigation to find out what else he might have fabricated as its premier newsreader. But Bloomberg Politics wonders why the news media feeding frenzy around Williams grew so intense – and seemingly joyful – when he crashed and burned. Answer’s pretty simple: Haters gonna hate.
See Photos
He Should Fire His HR Department: A day after saying “Welcome aboard!” to Ethan Czahor, his new super PAC tech officer, Republican presidential contender Jeb Bush made him walk the plank late Tuesday for some nasty stuff he’d written online. Bush stood by Czahor after Buzzfeed on Tuesday caught him scrubbing some Tweets that smacked of misogyny and homophobia, but fired him when Huffington Post found out he’d insulted black parents (and African-Americans in general), dissed Martin Luther King Jr. and slammed anything other than being a straight white male conservative, which (apparently) is awesome! No word on whether Bush sacked the person who vetted Czahor before he got hired.
Welcome to the Big Leagues: Two weeks after crack ABC reporter Martha Raddatz wouldn’t give him a pass on his Syria gibberish, Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, the GOP’s 2016 presidential Flavor of the Month, got another smack in the chops this week when he suggested that the minimum wage “doesn’t serve a purpose” and he has no plans to raise it during his second term. Wisconsin Democrats slammed him, then the national party piled on, suggesting Walker – who made conservatives swoon with a not-boring speech at a recent Iowa summit – better toughen up should he decide to run for president next year.
"Daily" Sunset: Jon Stewart, host of the groundbreaking “The Daily Show,” announced Tuesday he’s quitting the show this year after about 17 years as a fake newsman with real satirical bite. He may be leaving soon, but his influence on politics and political discourse will last long after he steps out of the spotlight.
Stat of the Day: Estimated number of U.S. preschoolers who spend part of every night at a daycare facility: 410,640 (courtesy Harper’s Index).
Duly Noted: On this date in 1812, Massachusetts Gov. Elbridge Gerry signed a redistricting law favoring his Democratic-Republican Party – giving rise to the term "gerrymandering." In 1862, the Civil War Battle of Fort Donelson began in Tennessee; Union forces led by Brig. Gen. Ulysses S. Grant captured the fort five days later. In 1937, future auto giant General Motors agreed to recognize the United Automobile Workers Union, formally ending a six-week sit-down strike. President Franklin D. Roosevelt, British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet leader Josef Stalin in 1945 signed the Yalta Agreement, in which Stalin declared war against Japan after Nazi Germany's capitulation in exchange for territories Japan seized during the Russo-Japanese War. In 1990, South African black activist Nelson Mandela was freed after 27 years in captivity; In 2012, pop singer Whitney Houston, 48, was found dead in a hotel room in Beverly Hills, California.
Happy Birthday, Aquarians: Actor Burt Reynolds (79), actress Tina Louise, Ginger from “Gilligan’s Island” (77), Brazil 66 bandleader Sergio Mendes (74), former Florida governor and Republican presidential contender Jeb Bush (62), actress Catherine Hickland (59), country-rock superstar Sheryl Crow (53), former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin (51), actress Jennifer Aniston (46), actor Damian Lewis (44), soul music genius D'Angelo (41), rock emcee/vocalist Mike Shinoda of Linkin Park (38), singer-actress Brandy (36), actor Taylor Lautner (23).
