http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/washington-whispers/2015/01/22/three-minute-briefing-mitt-and-jeb-try-to-work-it-out
Three Minute Briefing: Mitt and Jeb Try To Work It Out
Good Thursday morning, the 22nd day of the year and the second day of President Barack Obama’s State of the Union college road trip, designed to sell the broad themes he laid out in his big speech Tuesday night. He hits Lawrence, Kansas, today — home of Kansas University, the second red state he’s visited in two days. It’s almost exactly one year until the 2016 Iowa caucuses, which is likely the impetus for a big meeting between a pair of Republican rivals (see below). And it’s the first day after word leaked that Darren Wilson, the former policeman who shot and killed Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, won’t face civil rights charges; yesterday, New Jersey police released dashcam video of another cop fatally shooting an unarmed black man on Dec. 30. Here is your Three Minute Briefing — give us 180 secondsand we’ll give you All the News You Can Use:
Wonder Twin Powers, Activate!: In an exclusive report, the New York Times says Jeb Bush and Mitt Romney, the top two contenders for the Republican presidential nomination, will have a sit-down in Utah this weekend to work things out before the campaign starts. The goal, the Times says, is to come to an agreement on the 2016 presidential campaign to avoid dividing the party during next year’s primaries. Translation: which one of us can beat Hillary Clinton?
[READ: Jeb Bush's Big Moves Hint at 2016 Run]
Middle Class Economics: Though Obama hailed the great economic numbers — 5 percent unemployment, consecutive years of job growth — a lot of people in the middle class ain’t feeling it: they’re working harder and earning less than they did before the financial crash of 2008, reports the New York Times.
Abort: On the 42nd anniversary of the Roe vs. Wade Supreme Court decision, House Republicans bailed out on a bill that would have banned abortion after 20 weeks of pregnancy. The reason: Republican women and some GOP moderates weren’t on board.
GOP Discovers the Poor: Though they trashed Obama’s State of the Union speech Tuesday, Republicans have changed their conversation about the growing wealth gap, income inequality and how to best help the poor — think Rep. Paul Ryan’s “poverty tour,” Romney’s new rejection of “class envy” and Bush’s “Right to Rise” PAC.
YOLO: Romney’s been mocked for a re-run of a presidential campaign that voters panned in 2012, and in no small way. But Matt Yglesias at Vox says the idea of Romney 3.0 is just crazy enough to work: he’s a strong, experienced candidate, the GOP’s 2012 field was stronger than it is now, and campaigning gives Romney something to do. Other than polishing his car collection, say, or sitting around counting his millions.
When GloZell Met Barack: Following up on his SOTU speech, Obama talks to GloZell Green (oldsters, look her up on the Googles) and other YouTube stars today, another opportunity to sell his vision for rebuilding the middle class. No word on whether Glo will ask Obama to inhale an onion without crying or try and change his eye color with honey.
[READ: Who Are the YouTube Stars Interviewing President Obama?]
Ready For Biden??: As sitting vice president, Joe Biden’s in the traditional catbird seat for succeeding a two-term president, but Hillary Clinton is taking up most of the oxygen on the Democratic side. That hasn’t deterred Biden, who ran for the top job in 1988 and 2008, from thinking about it: he told the Today Show that “there’s a chance” he’ll throw his hat in the ring by summer.
Ouch: Though New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie just won a second term, a majority of New Jerseyans don’t think their governor would be a very good president. Overall, Reuters reports, 57 percent of Garden State voters gave the President Christie idea a thumbs-down, and it was across the board: the majority included nearly a third of registered Republicans, 78 percent of Democrats and 59 percent of independents.
Feckless Kenyan Dictator: Though he called for bipartisanship and extended verbal olive branches toward the end of his speech, Salon says Obama used the SOTU for a master’s class in trolling the GOP, laying out a compelling but unrealistic domestic policy agenda, then let the public see Republicans and their allies ladle out the haterade. And they played right into his hands, with hyperbolic Fox News radio host Todd Starnes, describing the speech as a “verbal waterboarding.”
Sellout Black President: Ebony Magazine smacks Obama for ignoring the Black Lives Matter campaign in his State of the Union speech. The president, in their words, simply “grazed over” the national protests ignited after former Ferguson police Officer Darren Wilson killed teenger Michael Brown last August (see above).
Call the Plumber: In setting up her 2016 presidential run (or not, since she hasn’t officially declared), Hillary Clinton is vetting potential campaign staffers to see if they are leak-proof. During her 2008 campaign, backbiting and infighting was rampant, and payback was often delivered by leaking unflattering details about rivals to the press.
Your Morning Tweet:
#SOTU = Speaking Optimism To USA. (Pic via @TheObamaDiary) #p2 pic.twitter.com/JS99kfRClT

Stat of the Day: Average annual salary predicted by white Americans for a worker who is described as “black”: $29,420. Who is described as “African-American”: $37,040 (courtesy of Harper’s Index).
Today in History: On this date In 1498, during his third voyage to the Western Hemisphere, Christopher Columbus arrived at the present-day Caribbean island of St. Vincent. Declaring, “No man shall dictate to me,” Katie Mulcahey in 1908 became the first and only woman to violate New York City's just-passed ban on women smoking in public establishments; the law was quickly overturned. Allied forces began landing at Anzio, Italy, during World War II in 1944. Sock it to me: 1968, "Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In" premiered on NBC-TV. A year ago, the White House Council on Women and Girls released a report on rape at college campuses, saying 1 in 5 female students were assaulted while only 1 in 8 student victims reported it.
Happy Birthday Aquarians: Former Sen. Birch Bayh (87), actress Piper Laurie (83), actor John Hurt (75), former Journey frontman Steve Perry (66), filmmaker Jim Jarmusch (62), “The Exorcist” star, actress Linda Blair (56), actor-rapper and former Will Smith collaborator DJ Jazzy Jeff (50), evil spike-haired celebrity chef Guy Fieri of TV’s "Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives" (47), Roe vs. Wade and a woman’s right to choose (see above) (42), actors Balthazar Getty (40), Christopher Kennedy Masterson (35) and Kevin Sheridan (33), actress-singer Phoebe Strole of TV’s "Glee" (32).

