One Expensive Way to Diminish Student Debt - NationalJournal.com
If you can't make a student's loan balance smaller, figure out how she might not have to pay it at all. That's the knock against President Obama's many-pronged strategy for reducing student-debt burden on borrowers. Critics say his solutions don't solve the underlying problem, which is that students are taking on too much debt in the first place. And the student-loan aid doesn't address an even deeper problem, which is that college costs too much for what these students get, particularly when they don't graduate.
These underlying problems really aren't the administration's fault, although it would be helpful for all policymakers to think about how to address them. While they are pondering those weighty questions, White House officials are simply using the executive tools at their disposal to ease a problem affecting 40 million Americans. We didn't get to $1.2 trillion in student debt overnight, and we're not going to get out of it quickly, either.
Obama has rolled out a host of student-loan assistance packages over the last several years, and the collective result is culminating into a secondary impact: Taxpayers and lenders are slowly being exposed to a harsh reality that some of that money simply won't be paid back. Whether student-loan borrowers use deferred payments or payment schemes based only on their monthly incomes, they eventually wind up in loan forgiveness. The lender—i.e., the government/taxpayer—loses.
Most recently, the administration is talking about allowing student borrowers to use the bankruptcy process for dispatching their loan obligations. Obama announced last week that he is asking the Treasury Department and other members of his Cabinet to explore how student loan holders can declare bankruptcy on those balances. Under current law, most student loans cannot be erased in bankruptcy because they come with federal guarantees that aren't offered on other types of loans. The White House's new Student Aid Bill of Rights starts the process of expanding bankruptcy protections to student borrowers on the premises that these borrowers should:
(1) have access to all available resources to repay their loans, and
(2) have the right to an affordable repayment plan.
These are reasonable expectations, but they also carry overtones of bias toward the borrower. That's not necessarily a bad thing. We encouraged them to take out loans for the education in the first place, so why shouldn't we be helping them out on the other end? Thus far, the answer has been to offer borrowers mini-payments that drag on for decades and lead to eventual debt forgiveness. That could come at great cost to the government, but advocates of this approach would argue there is a good reason for it. It's certainly not good for the U.S. economy to have 40 million residents holding debt balances that will never go away.
Republicans have accused Obama of simply borrowing time, not acknowledging the inevitable government payout that will come from the Education Department's smorgasbord of student loan repayment options. This latest suggestion on bankruptcy will undoubtedly be another point against him.
These critiques aside, the administration's efforts on student loan repayment make one thing perfectly clear: Student debt has become a societal problem that the entire country will have to deal with eventually. The only question is when and how.
For our insiders: How would it help student-loan holders if they were able to declare bankruptcy? Who would be the most likely to do so? How much would it cost and who would bear the burden? How would Obama's idea impact the all types of lending? What impact would it have on the private student-loan market? Is bankruptcy a good option for student borrowers who are in trouble making repayments? What are better options?
Note: This is a moderated blog on education issues. Comments are approved on a case-by-case basis. Contact me, if you want to be a regular commenter.

