Tax and Mend - NationalJournal.com
Overhauling the tax code is one of those broad Washington ideas that everyone supports in theory until the specifics come into focus. The same goes for tackling income inequality. How nice these grand ideas sound on bumper stickers or campaign buttons! It's the details that kill the bipartisan buzz. After all, the details don't just bring out armies of lobbyists; they can also highlight the vast differences between the two parties on such hot-button issues as the economy, taxation, and government spending.
Filling in those details, however, will be imperative if the House hopes to move ahead in 2015 with tax reform, a priority of Rep. Paul Ryan, the Wisconsin Republican who now chairs the House Ways and Means Committee. Congress must also decide whether to extend dozens of tax breaks that expired at the end of last year, including incentives for small businesses and charitable donations.
Can Republicans and Democrats find any common ground on taxes, spending, and how to restore the American Dream? National Journal's Nancy Cook recently spoke with two lawmakers from opposite sides of the aisle who have long been engaged in these issues. Democratic Rep. Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut recently introduced legislation, along with two other members, to expand three tax credits designed to help out families. Republican Rep. Mark Sanford, the former South Carolina governor now serving his second stint in the House, has a well-honed reputation as a fiscal conservative. Their exchange has been edited and condensed.
To start, do you think everyone should pay taxes?
Yes, I believe that at the end of the day, it's important from a societal standpoint for everybody to have, in essence, skin in the deal. When I used to be in the real-estate business, there was nothing worse than people who had ideas, but who didn't contribute to the investment. That is part of what has appeal for me about a fair tax, or a flat-tax concept: Everyone ought to be paying taxes, and that includes the top. The idea that GE could pay no taxes because of a long series of tax credits and exclusions, to me, is inexcusable. I think there is a value to everyone feeling like they are investing in America.
The question is the equity of the tax system: Who is paying more, and who is paying less? That is where one has to take a look at what happens. In my view, the system is not equitable today.
If you could make one change to the tax code, what would it be?
The starting point of any income inequality is wages. Jobs are not paying people enough to be able to pay their bills. I would make the child tax credit permanent, and I would index it to inflation.

Rep. Sanford, what about you? What would you tweak in the tax code?
The child credit. At the end of the day, I don't think it should be government policy to determine how many kids you have or you don't have. Our tax system ought to be color-blind whether one is single, whether one is a couple that chooses not to have kids, or whether one has half a dozen kids. If you believe in Thomas Friedman's notion that we live in a flat world, we're in a race for jobs, standard of living, and way of life in a way that we've never been before. And, therefore, tax policy ought to be aimed at rewarding and encouraging investment and productivity gains.
So, you would basically change the tax code so that it did not incentivize people to have kids?
I'm just using that as an example. My bigger point is that I think Rosa and I see the same objective, which is how you raise incomes. We may see different ways of getting there. My view would be more laissez-faire. Ultimately, we ought to get out of a whole host of different credits and incentives, and let Adam Smith's invisible hand work. We ought to focus on one thing, which is the marginal rate: Lower that rate as low as possible, so that people can then determine for themselves where people want to put their money. It's not that those directives out of government are wrong. It's just that they can't keep pace with the way in which our economy changes.
What about income inequality—can that be solved through the federal government's policies?
I think the issue is not income inequality. I think the issue is that jobs are not paying enough for people today. You've got data from the Economic Policy Institute that incomes of the top earners have gone up 41 percent since 1979. Those in the middle have seen a 6 percent increase. The loss of equity for the middle class is not solely based on impersonal forces like people like to talk about—technological change or globalization. It is also bad public policy.
Rosa touched on something that I think is very important—and, therefore, let me amend the credit I would go after. The one that jumps out at me would be the carried interest [a tax rule that allows some private-investment-fund managers to pay a lower rate than most individuals]. I think that there is astounding agreement among the Right and the Left that there is something fundamentally wrong with Steve Schwarzman [CEO of the private-equity firm Blackstone] getting 600-and-something million dollars as his income last year, and yet his tax treatment is preferential to somebody of incredibly modest means living in a small hamlet or village, whether in Connecticut or South Carolina.
I would concur. I think it's egregious.
Income-inequality trends are in fact exacerbated by the government. I'll give you an example of that: What the Fed has been doing, with a zero percent interest rate, has accrued straight to upper-income Americans, to the detriment of lower-income folks. The lower-income folks may not have access to a hedge fund, but they would have access to the local bank and a CD—and millions upon millions of Americans have been substantially hurt by the Fed's policy, because their life savings all of a sudden begin to accrue nothing, even though they may be in retirement or nearing retirement.
How would you solve that?

There ought to be greater transparency as to what the Fed does and why it does it. I would take power and authority away from the Fed. I think Congress and the president cede a lot of authority away from the Congress, where legitimate decisions ought to be debated and thought out.
I want to follow up on the idea of raising the tax rate on carried interest, since you both agree that it is a good idea. In your minds, what would a good rate be?
We now have a tax code that is skewed in favor of people who make money off of money and against those who make money off of work. The reformation is how we are skewed and who is making the gains. We give tax breaks for corporate debts, for racehorses, for carried interest. We can give employees bigger checks and reward people who earn money through hard work. That is the direction we ought to move in, and if you use that construct, then you figure out what makes sense within that framework to move forward.
I want to talk about the debate over the size of government. Rep. Sanford, what part of government would you expand?
Basic research, whether it's medical, biomedical, or technological. There are real dividends that can be paid in research that would not be done by industry, back to the golden era of the 1950s or so. It was a point of clear competitive advantage relative to other societies around the globe. I don't know if that's as much the case these days.
Oddly enough, one of the places [where I think we should take a more nuanced approach] is defense spending. I think that Republicans have a knee-jerk reaction to always say, "Our defense number has to be above whatever the Democrats' defense number is." If you look at what we spend relative to the other top 10 industrialized countries around the globe, we spend more than all of them combined.
Rep. DeLauro, what part of government would you eliminate or cut back?
I think the government needs to invest in infrastructure, in biomedical research, in education. If we believe the economy is getting any better at the moment, now is the time to do that. Since 2011, we've seen austerity budgets that have not allowed critical investments in this country. I believe this is a moment to reverse the trend.
So there is no part of government spending that you feel should be cut back at this point?
I'm not going to—I don't buy your question.
Should the American Dream still include owning a home?
I'm the daughter of an immigrant family who could only dare dream that their daughter would serve in the United States House of Representatives. What they did was they worked hard to get me an education, to make sure that I could realize my dreams. That's what the American Dream was all about. My folks never owned their own home. It was about making sure that they were doing the right thing for their kids and their kids were having a better chance than they had in terms of success.
You add up a couple of hundred million people: We all have different dreams, and to simplify the American Dream as owning your own home, I think, does the notion of the American Dream an injustice. I would tilt it more toward the basic premise of, "I did better." The American Dream is, my kids can do better than I can, or I did better than my dad, and my kids can do better than I did. There is a giant question mark beside that belief right now.
This article appears in the March 14, 2015 edition of National Journal Magazine as Tax and Mend.

