Kejriwal meets Rajnath, demands full-fledged statehood for Delhi
New Delhi: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief and Delhi's chief minister-designate Arvind Kejriwal met Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh and demanded full-fledged statehood for Delhi. Kejriwal was accompanied by AAP Patparganj MLA Manish Sisodia.
After the meeting, Sisodia said, "We met Rajnath Singh and gave him an invite for Kejriwal's swearing-in ceremony. We also discussed the issue of statehood."
Later, Kejriwal tweeted, "Met Venkaiah Naidu ji n Rajnath ji -the 2 most imp ministries for del govt. Invited them to oath ceremony."
Full-fledged statehood to Delhi is one of the important promises made by AAP in its manifesto. The BJP has evaded the issue all along and did not mention in its vision document released just before the Delhi Assembly elections.
The BJP has maintained that the issue requires a larger debate. The issue is likely to snowball into a major flashpoint between AAP and BJP.
Earlier on Wednesday, Kejriwal met Urban Development Minister M Venkaiah Naidu and discussed various issues with him including that of unauthorised colonies in the city and full statehood.
He was accompanied by Sisodia. "We have discussed four big issues with the minister. Firstly, the issues of the poor such as compensation for them, we will need central government's help in that. Secondly, the issue of unauthorised colonies on which the Centre recently passed a resolution. So in order to take it forward help will be needed from MCD, DDA and the Centre," Sisodia said after the meeting.
"We told him that for more schools, colleges, hospitals and parking, a lot of land will be needed so whatever land is available with DDA, we have requested for it," he said.
"And lastly the issue of full statehood. We have been fully assured that without any political divide we will get their support," he added.
Naidu promised all help to the Delhi government. "We have promised full cooperation to the AAP government in Delhi. I have been invited for the swearing-in ceremony. Arvind Kejriwal asked for Centre's support in running Delhi," said Naidu.
Kejriwal is slated to meet President Pranab Mukherjee on Wednesday and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday.

