Rahul Gandhi says he asked Jayanthi Natarajan to work for welfare of Adivasis
New Delhi: Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said it was he who had asked former Environment minister Jayanthi Natarajan to save the environment and the Adivasis and that he was not scared of this fact.
Addressing an election rally in Delhi, Rahul said, "I have always fought for the underprivileged and I will continue to do so fearlessly. Congress is a party of the poor and the weaker sections of the society. I am in politics today only for the cause of the poor."
He alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was behind the rebellion by Natarajan. "I spoke against (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi one day, the next day Jayanthi controversy came up. (Inhonein Jayanthi ko khada kar diya)"
Natarajan resigned from the Congress last week alleging bad treatment from party president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul. She had alleged that Rahul had interfered in her work as Environment minister.
On the Delhi elections, he said the national capital is India's political centre and for the last 15 years this city has moved ahead in harmony. During the Congress regime, there was place for everyone and all communities, he said.
Rahul said Delhi has been built in many years with lots of hard work, blood and sweat of many. Congress is also closely involved in the development of Delhi. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) talks of corruption and Prime Minister Narendra Modi used to talk of corruption earlier but the latter no more talks on corruption now. The biggest corruption is on the issue of land, he said.
He targeted Modi on land acquisition and alleged that farmers' land is being given to businessmen at throwaway prices. "We got the land Bill to protect the farmers' interest," he said.
He said Congress leaders do not give big speeches but work for the people. The UPA suffered political loss due to Land Acquisition Bill.
Rahul promised that all contract labourers will be made permanent within a week if there is a Congress chief minister in Delhi. He said one person cannot bring a change. "You chose Modi ji but he did nothing for you. Have prices been controlled? When we were in government, petrol prices were very high , now the petrol prices have gone down in international market by over 100 rupees but the benefit is not reaching the people," he said.
The Congress vice-president further said Modi had promised to give employment and he spent crores on 'Make in India but did it give anyone employment.
He also attacked Modi on reports of his expensive suit. "I read reports of him wearing a costly suit. The suit was also not even made in India, it was made in the UK," he said.
Rahul said it is easy to make promises but difficult to deliver.
He also targeted the BJP over its vision document which was released on Tuesday and said the BJP made the people of North East as foreigners. He accused the BJP of instigating fights between different communities. "On the one hand, they talk about development, on the other they instigate hate," he said.
Rahul also attacked Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). "He made promises to auto rickshaw drivers but did not deliver," he said.
He said incidents of rape happened during the Congress rule against which Anna Hazare and Arvind Kejriwal came out on roads. "Rape still happens. Why is the AAP not protesting? Why are they silent for seven months?" he said and alleged that AAP was BJP's agents.

