Delhi elections: BJP complaints to Election Commission against Kejriwal on ad issue
New Delhi: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday lodged a complaint with the Election Commission (EC) against Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal over the statements made by him over an advertisement published by it in newspapers.
Union Power Minister Piyush Goyal and BJP Delhi president Satish Upadhyay reached the EC's office after Kejriwal alleged that the BJP had insulted the whole 'Agrawal' caste in its advertisement. They complained to the EC saying Kejriwal was trying to give a casteist colour to the Delhi elections.
Goyal said, "The BJP has highlighted to EC about unfortunate use of caste in election process by AAP." We have highlighted the manner in which AAP is trying to give a casteist and religious tone to a BJP ad. They (EC officials) have seen the ad and will look into it."
Kejriwal raised objections over the use of the word 'gotra' used for him. However, Goyal said 'gotra' there was a political metaphor used for the "anarchist" behavior of Kejriwal and AAP.
Upadhyay said, "We have always said that they spread lawlessness and anarchist behaviour of Kejriwal and AAP."
Earlier, Goyal and Upadhyay held a press briefing to defend the party on the ad issue. Goyal, who was fielded by the BJP to respond to AAP's charges, expressed dismay over AAP raising the issue. "It is extremely sad that political parties are twisting the word which was meant to do a political attack. What Kejriwal is doing is violation of Model Code of Conduct to gain political mileage."
Goyal said the BJP did not believe in dividing India on the basis of caste. "The word ('gotra') has been twisted and misused by AAP," he said.
The Minister said gotra was used metaphorically in a political context but AAP has twisted its meaning.
On the resignation of BJP's chief ministerial candidate Kiran Bedi's election campaign manager, Upadhyay said the party has accepted his resignation. "Differences do occur when we work together. This issue should not be given too much importance," he said.

