http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/data-mine/2015/03/13/americans-to-spend-a-lot-of-green-on-st-patricks-day
Americans Will Spend a Lot of Green on St. Patty's Day
A reported 127 million Americans plan to celebrate St. Patrick’s Day this year, as a group more than 26 times the Republic of Ireland’s total population plans to wear – and spend – some serious green.
Americans will shell out a combined $4.6 billion for the holiday – which officially falls on Tuesday – and spend an average of $36.52 per person, up from last year’s $35.78, according to a holiday report from the National Retail Federation.
U.S. News made it to the end of the St. Patrick’s Day rainbow and broke down the seven biggest numbers to know from the holiday’s consumer spending pot of gold.
Another 24 million people in the U.S. will attend a private party to celebrate the occasion, and 104 million Americans say they will wear green, according to the National Retail Federation.
Though spending per person ($36.52) is expected to go up by more than 2 percent this year, the number of people celebrating the holiday (127 million) – and total spending ($4.6 billion) – are projected to fall. About 133 million U.S. adults said they planned to celebrate St. Patrick’s Day in 2014, and total spending was expected to reach $4.8 billion.
In fact, the percentage of people who said they will not celebrate St. Patrick’s Day this year (47.7 percent) is higher than any other year since 2010.
[READ: Behind the Numbers in Forbes' Billionaires List]
St. Patrick’s Day celebrations are far from limited to the products of Ireland, though WalletHub estimates there are 33.3 million people who claim Irish heritage in the U.S.
Assuming the entirety of America’s Irish ancestry celebrates St. Patrick’s Day this year, they will still only make up about 26 percent of total celebrants.
Irish ancestry is the second-most common European nationality reported in the U.S., falling short of Germany.
Nearly 23 percent of those who say they will celebrate St. Patrick’s Day plan on decking out their homes or apartments by buying or reusing holiday decorations.
The most festive age group seems to be the 25- to 34-year-old demographic. This group has the highest percentage of people who will decorate their homes (24.7 percent) and go to a bar (42.2 percent). The 25- to 34-year-old age group is also expected to spend the most per person ($41.69), followed by 35- to 44-year-olds ($39.95) and 18- to 24-year-olds ($38.55).
[MORE: Who Is Happier: Liberals or Conservatives?]
A reported 13 million pints of Guinness beer will be consumed on St. Patrick’s Day, according to WalletHub. St. Patrick’s Day is the fourth-most popular drinking holiday in the U.S., trailing New Year's Eve, Christmas and Independence Day, so revenue is expected to flow for Irish staple brands like Guinness.
To put that 13 million pints into perspective, you could fill two Olympic-size swimming pools with that amount of beer and still have enough left over to fill 642 4-by-5-foot hot tubs. You and 49 friends could each then take down a gallon of beer apiece with what was left over.
If you manage to catch a glimpse of a leprechaun on St. Patrick’s Day, don’t let it get away (and also think about switching from beer to water). Assuming you manage to coerce the leprechaun into giving up his pot of gold, you’ll find yourself holding a $1.26 million golden ticket.
That is, of course, assuming the leprechaun’s pot holds 1,000 gold coins each weighing an ounce, according to WalletHub. Leprechauns are notoriously tricky, so be sure to count your stash before letting the little guy go.
[ALSO: See Green With 2015 St. Patrick's Day Sales]
Not all of us are going to catch a leprechaun between now and Tuesday, so if you’re sending a card to a family member or loved one, you can find one for less than $1 at Hallmark.
Hallmark reportedly has 100 different St. Patrick’s Day cards available, according to WalletHub, so you’ll have plenty of options if you’d rather not go to the bargain bin.
On a more sobering note, 276 people died in drunken-driving accidents on St. Patrick’s Day weekends between 2009 and 2013, according to Cars.com.
The most dangerous time to be on the road is reportedly between midnight and 5:59 a.m., so be vigilant and enjoy that Guinness responsibly.
