http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/data-mine/2015/03/04/januarys-misery-index-at-lowest-level-since-1959
Misery Index Hits Lowest Level in More Than Half a Century
An economic barometer known as the Misery Index shows the U.S. is in its best financial shape since May 1959.
The index, which is calculated by adding monthly inflationary and unemployment rates, dipped to 5.61 percent in January, marking a seventh consecutive month of decline. January's 5.7 percent unemployment rate and -0.09 percent inflation rate suggest that the country is in the least miserable economic situation it's seen in the better part of a century.
[MORE: Job Growth Cools in February ADP National Employment Report]
"Although the economic and business headlines have certainly improved since 1980, they don't quite have the same feel to them as they did in 2006, 1998, 1965, or even 1959 – the last time the Misery Index was lower than today," John Canally, chief economic strategist at LPL Financial, tells U.S. News in an email. "The disconnect may come down to wages."
Wages have been relatively flat as other segments of the economy, like the job market and housing prices, have ballooned in the aftermath of the Great Recession. Canally notes that Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen last week described wages as "sluggish" and indicated the Fed was unlikely to raise interest rates until the American people saw progress in their paychecks.
“Wage growth has been very low or even negative through much of the last 15 years, compared to the ‘80s and ‘90s,” says Robert Shapiro, former undersecretary of commerce for economic affairs, who is now chairman of the advisory firm Sonecon.
[MORE: Income and Wages Rise in January as Oil Weighs on Spending]
But national wages and salaries grew by $42.4 billion in January, according to an income report issued Monday by the Department of Commerce. Shapiro describes Monday’s wage uptick as “a step in the right direction.”
The role wages play in assessing economic health suggests the Misery Index doesn't paint a completely perfect picture. Unemployment and inflation are far from the only factors at play in the domestic economy, and the reasons behind their fluctuations can be difficult to decipher. For example, unemployment can go up – as it did in January – even with a surge of people entering the labor force. Economists consider the added workers a good thing for the domestic economy, but the Misery Index, looking at the unemployment rate, reflects jobless misery.
Low inflation isn't always a good thing, either. Out of control inflation is a problem, but depressed inflation – and even deflation – creates an issue for the Federal Reserve and its goal of pushing inflation toward 2 percent.
[ALSO: February Sales Show Big Month for Big Cars]
Still, the Misery Index was cushioned from a major spike during the Great Recession by an eight-month period in which the country dipped into deflationary territory. Because inflation was negative, the Misery Index held firm, despite unemployment rates rising to their highest levels since 1982. So looking just at the index, it would be difficult to tell the country had plunged into its most severe recessionary period since the Great Depression.
Below, U.S. News breaks down fluctuations in the Misery Index over the last five decades, highlighting what economic events guided the barometer through peaks and valleys.
