1 in 3 Americans Near Financial Disaster
Americans’ overall perception of the domestic economy has ticked up to pre-Great Recession levels, though more than a third of the country still sits on the edge of financial ruin.
A study published Monday by Bankrate.com suggests 37 percent of Americans have credit card debt greater than or equal to their emergency savings, meaning a steep medical bill, a car accident or other unexpected expense could push them over a budgetary cliff.
“A pretty good chunk of the population still has more credit card debt than they have in their emergency savings account,” says Jeanine Skowronski, a senior credit card analyst and reporter at Bankrate.com. “The recession’s over, but there’s still some lagging effects that can be affecting some people’s pockets.”
Though about 58 percent of those surveyed said they had more savings than debt, Skowronski says that’s only “marginally” improved from years past. A reported 51 percent of Americans had sufficient savings last year, while 55 percent said the same in 2013.
[READ: Weather Puts Chills on Housing]
“We’re seeing pretty much the same numbers every year, which shows that people really aren’t prioritizing savings still,” she says. “The problem with credit card debt is it’s a vicious cycle. If you’re carrying credit card debt, you’re going to be carrying more in interest on that, and that’s part of the reason why I still think we’re seeing the number stay there.”
Interest rates on unpaid debt can compound over time, potentially spiraling out of control for the average consumer. The Federal Reserve estimates total outstanding revolving credit – a figure made up mostly of Americans’ total credit card debt – sat at nearly $888 billion at the end of the fourth quarter of last year, up from $857.6 billion a year ago.
Americans between 30 and 49 years old, many of whom are paying off mortgages or costs associated with raising children, are in the worst debt-to-savings shape, according to the Bankrate.com study. A reported 46 percent of individuals in that age bracket have credit card debt greater than or equal to their emergency savings fund.
[MORE: Is a Deal in the Works to Avoid a DHS Shutdown?]
“They probably have more debts that they have to deal with month to month that they have to pay off. That’s sort of the demographic that was the hardest hit in the recession, and they’re the ones struggling the most to rebound still,” Skowronski says. “I just think that generally Americans are really good at spending. They’re not good at saving. It’s just not in the front of their minds as they go about their day-to-day business.”
Only 29 percent of individuals at least 65 years old, meanwhile, said their credit card debt equaled or exceeded their savings.
Among college graduates, 75 percent of those surveyed said their emergency savings exceeded their credit card debt. And 51 percent of those who had a high school education or less said their savings were in good shape with respect to their debt.
Only 16 percent of Americans said their overall financial situation in 2015 was worse than it was a year ago. A reported 31 percent said their situation had improved year over year, while 52 percent said they were in about the same place financially. And 24 percent of Americans said they are more secure in their jobs this year than they were a year ago, compared to only 12 percent who said they were less secure.
[ALSO: Sony Eyewear Aims to Surpass Google Glass]
What's more, Gallup’s U.S. Economic Confidence Index was positive last week for the eighth consecutive week, reflecting Americans’ improving overall perceptions of the domestic economy. January was the first month since the Great Recession to end with a positive average index score.
Still, credit card debt continues to drag on many Americans’ pockets. Skowronski recommends saving early and paying debt off quickly to avoid getting caught in an interest cycle.
“Go back to basics. Write your budget out. Find what things that you can cut so you have five, 10, 20 extra dollars each week that you can drop into a savings account that will add up over time,” she says, also noting that tax refunds can go a long way toward repaying debt or cushioning savings. “If you get your refund, you can do one of two things: If you’re in that situation where you have more credit card debt, you can use the refund to pay it off so it’s not growing thanks to the interest. If you don’t, but you don’t have any savings on hand, don’t spend that on a vacation instead.”

