Valentine's Day Spending to Approach $19 Billion - US News
Valentine’s Day retail spending is expected to reach a record $18.9 billion this year, as an improving American economy frees up more funds for people to invest in gifts for their loved ones.
More than half (54.9 percent) of Americans at least 18 years old said they plan to celebrate Valentine’s Day this year, though the percentage of those who recognize the holiday drops off after the age of 44, according to a survey conducted by the National Retail Federation.
Americans between 35 and 44 years old are most likely to celebrate Valentine’s Day, while less than half of people at least 65 years old will commemorate the occasion.
The average person celebrating Feb. 14 will shell out $142.31, with $96.63 going to a spouse or significant other and the rest split among family members, friends, co-workers, pets, children’s classmates or teachers or other recipients.
Guys will shell out an average of $190.53 this year, while women will spend $96.58 on gifts. And the average man who’s shopping for a significant other will spend nearly twice as much as the average woman ($128.90 and $62.47, respectively) – suggesting chivalry is not, in fact, dead.
[READ: 5 Things to Know About the Economy This Week]
Those buying gifts for Valentine’s Day who make at least $50,000 annually will part with an average of $174.44, while those under that wage threshold will spend $99.53.
“It’s great to see consumers coming out of their shell this year, looking to spend discretionary budgets on those they love once again,” Pam Goodfellow, a principal analyst for Prosper Insights & Analytics, said in a National Retail Federation news release. “While many will splurge, some will still look for simple and affordable ways to show their appreciation for friends and family and celebrate in a way they are most comfortable with.”
The combined $18.9 billion in retail spending – up from a predicted $17.3 billion in 2014 – is expected to be funneled primarily into discount and department stores. Almost 44 percent of women plan to shop for their valentines at a discount store this year, while more than 37 percent of men head to a department store.
Nearly 55 percent of women and 52 percent of men will buy candy for their valentines, while more than 61 percent of guys plan to pick up flowers. Of the 21 percent of individuals buying jewelry, the average expense this Valentine’s Day is expected to be $172.38.
[MORE: Yemen Instability Threatens U.S. Drone, Commando Campaign Against AQAP]
More than half of Americans shopping this year said they would buy gifts for other family members (58.7 percent), while more than a fifth (21.2 percent) said they would buy gifts for their pets.
You can check out a full breakdown of the report to see what other people in your age group and tax bracket are expected to spend this year. There’s still time to run out for an extra box of chocolates.

