Violence Prevention Lacking Global Effort
Worldwide rates of homicide have decreased in recent years, but a new report shows violence still prevails in high numbers even when war is not factored in.
[READ: Yes, There Are More Mass Shootings]
The report from the World Health Organization assesses national efforts to address violence, including child maltreatment, youth violence, intimate partner and sexual violence, and elder abuse. Homicide rates decreased 16 percent between 2000 and 2012, but non-fatal violence remains widespread. One in 4 children has been physically abused, 1 in 5 girls has been sexually abused, 1 in 3 women has been physically or sexually abused, and 1 in 17 seniors has suffered some form of abuse during the past month.
Nearly 5 million people were murdered in 2012, and among men ages 14 to 55 it is the third-leading caused of death, states the report. Four out of 5 homicides are male, even when killings during war are not included. The total is 16 percent lower than it was 10 years earlier.

[MORE: Domestic Violence Is as American as Apple Pie]
Despite these figures, only a third of the 133 countries surveyed have initiatives in place to prevent violence. These include bullying prevention programs, nurse visits to talk to at-risk families, and support to those who care for the elderly.
Half of all countries surveyed have services in place to protect and support victims of violence. Among approaches WHO says are best in the countries surveyed:
"High levels of family and community violence cripple both people’s ability to sustain their individual livelihoods, as well as a nation’s options for political, social, and economic development," Helen Clark, administrator of the United Nations' development Program, said in a statement. "This report takes stock of the measures countries are taking to prevent and respond to interpersonal violence, but the report also reveals gaps in global violence prevention which must be filled, such as the quality and reach of prevention programs, the access to services for victims, particularly for women and girls who are disproportionately affected by violence, and the enforcement of existing laws."
[READ: Few Depressed Americans Seek Care]
Laws also can serve against violence prevention. Just more than half of the reviewed countries are enforcing laws generally acknowledged among global health leaders to prevent violence, although 80 percent of countries have enacted them. A review of countries' laws found:
“Laws protecting citizens against violent crime send a clear message to society about what is acceptable,” Yury Fedotov, executive director of the United Nations office on drugs and crime," said in a statement.

