Doctors: Painkillers Overprescribed, But Not by Me
Nine in 10 doctors report prescription drug abuse is a moderate to large problem in their communities, and 85 percent believe that prescription drugs are overused in clinical practice, a new doctor survey finds.
About half of doctors say they are less likely to prescribe prescription painkillers than they were a year ago, though the study did not seek to understand whether this was because they had seen adverse effects in their own patients or whether it was because of increased education within the medical community about prescription drug addiction, says Dr. G. Caleb Alexander, study leader and co-director of the Center for Drug Safety and Effectiveness at the Johns Hopkins School of Public Health. "There are many drivers of physicians’ prescribing patterns, ranging from their own clinical experiences to the effects of media, influential scientific publications, clinical practice guidelines and interactions with drug companies," he says.
The report, which surveyed 420 members from the American Medical Association and was published in the group's journal Monday, examined doctors' beliefs and self-reported practices about prescription drug abuse. It found that about 65 percent to 84 percent of doctors reported being "very" or "moderately" concerned about addiction, deaths or car accidents related to painkiller abuse.
“Our findings suggest that primary care providers have become aware of the scope of the prescription opioid crisis and are responding in ways that are important, including reducing their overreliance on these medicines,” Alexander said in a statement. “The health care community has long been part of the problem and now they appear to be part of the solution to this complex epidemic.”
[READ: Teens with Addiction Have Few Recovery Programs]
Though doctors admit to being concerned about the effects prescribing painkillers, 88 percent of respondents say they are confident in their skills related to prescribing, and nearly half are comfortable using the drugs for chronic non-cancer pain. "Doctors tend to be confident individuals, and in some cases, they may also underestimate the risks of these medicines relative to their benefits," Alexander says.
A press release from Hopkins also theorized that the attitudes may reflect the fact that doctors tend to perceive their own clinical skills and judgment as superior to that of their peers. Prior studies have shown that most doctors believe their colleagues’ prescribing decisions are swayed by pharmaceutical marketing and promotion, yet they themselves are immune to such effects. One of the most common reasons people seek medical treatment is to alleviate chronic pain, which affects 116 million Americans, according to the National Institute on Drug Abuse. Often, doctors treat pain with prescription drugs called opioids or narcotics. Other pain-relief methods can include acupuncture, massage or physical therapy.
[ALSO: Few Depressed Americans Seek Care]
Most recent figures from the National Institute on Drug Abuse show that the use of prescription drugs nearly doubled between 2000 and 2010, leading to abuse, addiction, injury and death. A White House report from a few years ago found that prescription drug abuse is the nation's fastest growing drug problem. According to results from the 2010 National Survey on Drug Use and Health, an estimated 2.4 million Americans used prescription drugs nonmedically for the first time that year.
The drugs work by binding to receptors in the brain, blocking the feeling of pain, and are effective when used properly, though they are highly addictive. Medications include hydrocodone, oxycodone, morphine and codeine. When patients stop taking narcotics they can get cravings, become unable to sleep and develop mood swings. "Despite all of their dangers – and they do have many – opioids still play an important role in providing pain relief to some patients," Alexander says. "The problem isn’t that these medicines exist, but rather, that they have been widely used in settings beyond the evidence base, and at great cost to the public health."
[MORE: Most Americans With HIV Aren't Treated]
Drug abuse is defined by the National Library of Medicine as taking medication in a way that is different from what the doctor prescribed whether taking one that was prescribed for someone else, taking a larger dose that you are supposed to, snorting or injecting them when not directed to do so, or taking them with drugs or alcohol. These approaches can slow breathing, affecting the amount of oxygen that reaches the brain.
"Most of the preventable injuries and deaths from opioids during the past decade have been among patients using these drugs for non-cancer pain, and chronic or high dose opioid use for non-cancer pain can be especially dangerous," Alexander says.
In the survey, most doctors also reported high frequency of adverse events, including that tolerance occurred "often." Fifty-six percent reported physical dependence, and 36 percent reported ceiling effects, meaning additional doses fail to produce additional relief.


