http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/Jamie-Stiehm/2015/01/21/obama-unbowed-in-2015-state-of-the-union-speech
Obama Unbowed
Clearly to all in the House, President Barack Obama put on a masterful, muscular performance, saying, “I still believe that we are one people.”
His penultimate State of the Union address called for something zesty, bold, unbowed. He confidently came through with flying colors in the Capitol’s traditional political pageant, reminding friends and foes of his formidable political skills.
Liberals had to love the president’s call for closing Guantanamo (“I will not relent”) and his free community college plan. Conservatives sweltered slightly when he reminded them that he handled Russian leader Vladimir Putin pretty well over Ukraine without firing a shot in anger. Everybody had to be happy that George W. Bush’s long wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are just about over.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on Barack Obama]
And how ‘bout that economy, at last awakening from a nightmare? And by the way, health care reform will always have his name on it. So will opening doors to our neighbor, Cuba. “When what you’re doing doesn’t work for 50 years, it’s time to try something new,” he said. In flares of feistiness, he did not shy away from crowing over his successes.
Too bad the chamber held more foes than friends than at any point in Obama's presidency. There are now 301 Republicans in the House and Senate combined, a majority in each house of Congress for the first time since Obama took office. Never has he faced such a hostile sea of faces.
But he sure swam in that sea. In fact, the thunderous reception was such that you wouldn’t know the Democratic president is vastly outnumbered and stands little chance of getting any liberal initiatives passed into law. Try as he might, and he did try, he can’t get Republicans like the powerful Senator James Inhofe, R-Okla., to concede on climate change. (Inhofe refuses to accept there is such a thing.)
Obama’s seventh address was his most inspired outing from the White House to Congress. Short, clear substance coated every statement. He covered the dismal 21st century, terrorism, child care for the workforce, tax code fairness and, in case you missed it, “middle-class economics.” That’s a new code for income inequality, a plague upon the land. He sounded like a prairie populist.
[MORE: Political Cartoons on Congress]
Here’s the thing: It may be too late for Obama to become a populist. Four years ago, in a tense bargain, he agreed to let some of the George W. Bush tax cuts (for wealthy Americans) become chiselled into law when they were due to expire. There was really no need to do that when his own party was in power. Senior Democrats were wary about the move, but Obama made it anyway. He was trying to “friend” Republicans like the dour John Boehner, the House speaker. Boehner never accepted his request.
That fateful decision made income inequality all the more prevalent in a tough economy. To think the president could prevail against a Republican Congress in a quest for changing the tax code is to believe in Washington hearing voices of the people.
In a disarming personal tone, Obama said, “I know many of you well.” In a rare moment of humility, he admitted that he himself had flaws. He circled back to 2004 when as a Senate candidate, he declared that the country is more than a collection of red states and blue states: “We are the United States of America.”
[SEE: Political Cartoons on the Economy]
Secretary of State John Kerry was standing close, the 2004 Democratic nominee who gave the young Obama the speaking berth at the Democratic convention. He was the most polished man in the throng. Stone-faced Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., was the happiest man in the House. He’s living his dream now. Newly minted, McConnell will be a fierce foe of just about anything Obama suggested might be nice to try.
Three Supreme Court Justices – Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito – did not have the good grace to show up.
Assistant Majority Leader Richard Durbin, D-Ill.) said after the speech: “The president is stepping up his game. His message was spot on. I wish we had a chance to deliver that message before the (2014) election.”
Play it, Sam. Bittersweet.
