Seasonal Wonder
If there was any doubt about wishing to be transported to 18th-century London to stay awhile, the Senate Intelligence Committee torture report gave me a good hard shove. We are all implicated, as Americans, in what went down in the dreary dark for seven years.
The cruel practices it described might as well be medieval, but got a nod from former Vice President Dick Cheney, who should try being waterboarded sometime. The New York Times says he and other George W. Bush administration principals should be investigated for their role in the torture program.
Fine – but it's not like any one man will be tried in court for this disgraceful national narrative. The way the United States treated post-9/11 detainees (terrorism suspects who were never brought to trial) is something to reckon with and answer for, but somehow I doubt Cheney will ever hear the knock of the law on his door.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on Torture and the CIA's Enhanced Interrogation Techniques]
If he does, we can all sing “Guantanamera.” Call me in London if that day comes.
Meanwhile, I’ll be back in the vanished 18th century, at home in my parlor. Over the holidays, a beautiful “Messiah” performance and a lush movie, “Mr. Turner” reminded me of the loveliness of London at that time. The ears and eyes had so much to enjoy – from the precise elegance of George Frideric Handel’s choral masterpiece to the artist J.M.W. Turner’s stark landscapes and shimmering seascapes before the railroad and Industrial Revolution rolled in.
At the curving, stainless steel Walt Disney Concert Hall in downtown Los Angeles, designed by Frank Gehry, eleven of us fell under the sway of "Messiah’s" haunting and tender notes. But it was the sheer exuberance of the choral harmony in the "Hallelujah" chorus and other passages that swept us back to Dublin, where the work was premiered in 1742. Handel himself presided on the harpsichord. According to the program, the cathedral dean who gave a green light to the choral singers was none other than the brilliant satirist, Jonathan Swift.
[READ: Christmas Compassion]
Even better, Jane Austen was born a clergyman’s daughter in 1775, the same year the painter Turner was born. Austen is my favorite novelist, and Turner is one of my father’s favorite artists. It seemed that the century was brimming with brio and talent in a much smaller world. Not to mention the untouched, rugged beauty Turner captured on his canvases. The white cliffs of Dover flash across the screen like a dream. Turner lived long enough to see the alterations wrought by the factory, steamship and railroad and is recommended for anyone who has anxiety over the Internet (like me).
A line from "Messiah" proclaims: “We shall all be changed in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet.” The musical cadences as well as major and minor chords seemed to charm the rapt concertgoers in the full hall. We were changed, if only for a passing moment, not by religion, but by the very music composed by Handel – at least, speaking for my family and me. The king of England, George II, also felt moved and overcome, legend has it, and stood for the "Hallelujah" chorus. Since then, everybody does. A shining story from 18th-century London. Merry Christmas.

