A Good Day for Gay Marriage
Good morning class. It's the first Monday in October, and under the bright sun, you can feel the rustle of autumn leaves by the Supreme Court, which traditionally opens for business today. Do you hear the jubilant cheers from that direction? That's because the court did something right by five states in the country. Chief Justice John Roberts and the rest of the eight Justices declined to take a second look at lower court rulings that allowed same-sex marriages to go forward. That means a green light for a new frontier for human rights.
So in Virginia, Wisconsin, Indiana, Utah and Oklahoma, you can now dance at a gay marriage – be merry and gay, so to speak. Pour the champagne and celebrate like crazy. In these five states, such marriages were on ice, depending on what the court decided to do – or not do.
And there's the little flaw for me. The conservative Roberts court did not take a stand, explicitly, on whether gay marriages are constitutional. They decided not to decide. This is a happy moment in time, to be sure, but not a great turning point in the history of American jurisprudence. The court did not speak, as it has in other sweeping social questions facing it, such as school desegregation and voting rights. So don't get too excited and rosy.
[SEE: Cartoons on Gay Marriage]
I get a certain pleasure from the fact that several of the Republican-appointed Justices – including Clarence Thomas and his best bud Antonin Scalia – reside in Virginia. So gay weddings will be happening all around them. Witnessing is another way that social change can happen; hearts and minds change from seeing evidence of progress all around, when the law does not get in the way. In these dark days, that's the best we can hope for from the Roberts court, more deeply divided than the nation.
But beware. Roberts is a shrewd fall camouflager, and by starting out the term on an up-note, he may be setting up his opponents. I fear what is to come. Gay marriage has become the fall fashion, the human advance most acceptable to an ultra-conservative court, partly because one of their ilk, former Solicitor General Ted Olson, is championing the cause. Yes, I believe Olson helped the movement gain legal ground and influence; it never hurts to have an immaculately polished guy like that on your side in this political climate – and he's a Virginian, too. They are on the same social circuit across the river.
[SEE: Political Cartoons]
But at the end of the first Monday in October, let's not forget how essentially Dickensien this court is, practically promulgating that corporations are people and women are not. And by the way, women had best get a bit more mad and organized about our own human rights. A cold winter is straight ahead. Class dismissed.

