Hillary Clinton Crafts Economic Message
Hillary Clinton is putting together an economic message for the presidential campaign of 2016, and it's turning out to be a distinctively Clintonian brand of quasi-populism.
Many liberal activists have been urging Clinton to take a more aggressive, confrontational approach by damning the rich and big corporations--a message popularized by Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass. Warren says the nation's economy is rigged against the middle class. She is being urged to run for president as a passionate populist but has declined so far.
[READ: Jeb Bush Stands His Ground at CPAC ]
Clinton, even though she is being pushed to the left by Warren and the Democratic party's liberal wing, has been taking a modulated approach and is resisting class warfare. In a speech February 24 at the Watermark Silicon Valley Conference for Women in Santa Clara, California, Clinton said, "We have to restore economic growth with rising wages for the vast majority of Americans, and we have to restore trust and cooperation within our political system." She added: "Wages no longer rise with productivity, while C.E.O. pay keeps going up. We have to figure out how to make this new economy work for everyone." She is not urging Americans to tear down the haves in order to help the have-nots. Instead, she talks about a rising tide that lifts all boats.
The Wall Street Journal reported Monday that Clinton's announcement of candidacy is likely to come in April.
[MORE: Some in GOP Say Homeland Security Funding Lapse No Big Deal]
The Journal also reported that Clinton has been meeting privately with policy specialists as she fashions her message on the economy and other issues in preparation for the 2016 campaign.
The area where Clinton is not backing away is in her feminism. Clinton said it was time to "crack every last glass ceiling" and emphasized the need for gender equality, pay equity and economic fairness. Her message was not angry but pointed. "In many ways our economy seems to be still operating like it's 1955," Clinton said. "And that's not just a problem for women, it's a problem for everyone." She called for equal pay for women, more companies providing paid leave, a higher minimum wage, and incentives for businesses to raise wages and improve benefits for workers.
[ALSO: Why Did Israel Decide to Support Syrian Rebels?]
But Clinton has drawn criticism for hypocrisy because as a U.S. senator from New York she paid women 72 cents for each dollar paid to men, according to an analysis by the Washington Free Beacon.
Clinton also took a conciliatory tone in discussing Washington's ongoing partisanship. "I'd like to bring people from right, left, red, blue, get them into a nice warm purple space where everybody is talking and where we're actually trying to solve problems," the former secretary of state said.

