Brand Hillary Tries a Makeover
See Photos
A potentially troublesome cloud of contradictions is swirling around Hillary Clinton as she moves toward running for the Democratic nomination for president in 2016.
Clinton is assessing how to present herself as a candidate, and so far she is being widely second guessed. Some of her advisers and admirers seem to be viewing her as a consumer product as she tries to find ways to recast her image.
"Look at Budweiser," a former campaign adviser to President Barack Obama told The Washington Post. "That's what Hillary Clinton is. She's not a micro-brew. She's one of the biggest, most powerful brands ever in the country, and recognizing that is important." But such talk about marketing and image can make her look insincere and turn voters off.
Clinton's challenge, Democratic and Republican consultants say, is two-fold: to demonstrate that she has principles that transcend politics, and to persuade Americans she is looking toward the future and isn't the candidate of the past.
On Tuesday, she signaled that her 2016 campaign, if she runs as expected, would emphasis gender politics and her potential as the first woman president. Speaking at a conference for women technology professionals in Silicon Valley, California, she argued that it was time to "crack every last glass ceiling" and emphasized the need for gender equality, pay equity and economic fairness. "In so many ways our economy seems to be operating like it's still 1955," Clinton said. "And that's not just a problem for women, it's a problem for everyone." She noted that women are under-represented in the field of technology and reminded the audience that she has promoted women's equality and women's rights throughout her public career.
Yet Clinton has been drawing criticism for hypocrisy because she paid women 72 cents for each dollar paid to men when she was a U.S. senator, according to an analysis by the Washington Free Beacon. This story has been getting wide media attention, and prompting charges that she is hypocritical.
Clinton also is being criticized for speaking to well-heeled groups such as the one she addressed Tuesday, the Watermark Silicon Valley Conference for Women, even though she touts her appeal to the middle class and the poor. The New York Times estimated that she was paid $300,000 for her Tuesday speech.
Clinton has been faulted for allowing her family foundation to accept millions of dollars in contributions from foreign sources, raising conflict of interest questions. And her party's liberal activists complain that she is too close to Wall Street and the financial industry, although she has been courting liberals with her emphasis on women's rights and other issues.
Republicans agree that Clinton has an image problem. "She wants to be able to keep her rich friends happy but at the same time be Elizabeth Warren's best friend," says Republican strategist Frank Donatelli, former White House political director for President Ronald Reagan. Donatelli was referring to recent overtures Clinton has made to Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., one of the Democratic party's leading liberal firebrands.
[OPINION: Will Hillary Clinton Run Unopposed in 2016? Don't Bet On It.]
Clinton has an impressive resume, having been first lady, U.S. senator from New York and secretary of state during President Obama's first term. But she lost the 2008 Democratic presidential nomination to Obama partly because her message was murky and she seemed inauthentic, while Obama seized the moment by emphasizing hope and change.
Assisting Clinton in defining herself for 2016, The Washington Post reports, are Wendy Clark, a veteran of marketing traditional brands such as Coca-Cola to younger people and diverse audiences, and Roy Spence, a longtime friend of Bill and Hillary Clinton who has advised Southwest Airlines and Wal-Mart.
The potential drawback was described by Republican strategist Fred Davis, who told the Post that if Clinton's marketing "seems like a craven attempt to try to put fresh paint on an old house, then it will backfire."


