Giving War a Green Light
Going to war is the most important challenge and the biggest responsibility that any president faces because so many lives and so much money are at stake. And it’s generally true that, in a crisis, the commander in chief gets his way with Congress, as shown when Franklin Roosevelt got a declaration of war against Japan and Germany, Lyndon Johnson won congressional support for escalating the Vietnam war, George H.W. Bush won Capitol Hill’s backing to wage war against Iraq, and George W. Bush was supported by Congress when he ordered the invasions of Iraq and Afghanistan and began a global “war on terror.”
[READ: U.S. Announces Battle Plan for ISIS Attack]
But it’s turning out to be a different story for President Barack Obama. He came into office pledging to end America’s combat role in Iraq and Afghanistan and to fight terrorism in a smarter, more multilateral, less costly way than his predecessor, George W. Bush. But, because of the divisions in a war-weary America over national security policy and deep doubts about his policies from both the left and the right, he is now facing remarkable pushback in his request for congressional authorization to wage war against the Islamic State group.
Obama’s aides say his proposal is finely calibrated and doesn’t go too far or stop too short. The problem is that it’s a halfway measure, and doesn’t satisfy the left or the right, and it’s in danger of being picked apart.
Americans are increasingly displeased with Obama’s handling of the Islamic State, and they believe the fight is going badly. The latest CNN/ORC survey finds that 57 percent of Americans disapprove of how Obama is handling the threat, up from 49 percent in September. Fifty-eight percent say U.S. military action against the Islamic State is going badly, up from 49 percent who said the fight was not going well in October. This rise in pessimism is due no doubt to the recent acts of savagery undertaken by the Islamic State and the terrorist movement’s territorial gains in Iraq and Syria.
Obama wants Congress to endorse a three-year limit on U.S. military action and disallow long-term, largescale combat on the ground. Some conservatives say this is a weak response to the threat from the terrorists, while liberals see the potential for an unwise escalation because special forces and other ground operations would be per mitted and the three-year date would extend a year into the next presidency.
Sen. John McCain, an Arizona Republican, opposes any anti-Islamic State measure that puts too many limits on the president’s power, as he says Obama’s proposal would do. McCain, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, told NBC News, “To restrain him in our authorization of him taking military action, I think, frankly, is unconstitutional and eventually leads to 535 commanders in chief,” a reference to the number of legislators in the House and Senate.
[ALSO: Obama's Anti-ISIS AUMF: Another Blank Check?]
And Rhode Island Sen. Jack Reed, the top Democrat on the Senate Armed Services Committee, told NBC, “We don’t want to send a signal to the world that we’re there for just so many years. Unfortunately, this battle is going to take a long time. I think we’d be better off with a resolution without a specific time limit.”
In contrast, California Rep. Adam Schiff, the ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, told ABC it was “very important to not write another blank check.” Earlier he had told reporters, “I don’t feel this is a restraining document as written. It’s, I think, quite carte blanche in terms of geography, types of forces, etc. And therefore, I think we’re going to have to have a lot of work on that.”
Obama says he really doesn’t need the authorization. He ordered a bombing campaign against the extremists in Iraq and Syria six months ago based on a use-of-force approval from Congress in 2001. But Obama says he is asking for the new congressional authorization to demonstrate renewed public and congressional support for his policies in fighting terrorism. Unfortunately for him, in addition to the growing doubts on Capitol Hill, Americans are divided, too. Fifty-four percent want their member of Congress to vote for Obama’s useof-force authorization, according to the latest NBC News/ Marist poll. But 32 percent want their legislator to vote against it. And 48 percent have little or no confidence in Obama’s strategy to fight the terrorists while only 45 percent have a “great deal” or a “good amount” of confidence.
So the signs point to more polarization. And that can’t be helpful to Obama as he tries to rally the nation.

