Jeb Bush Fights Family Legacy
Jeb Bush is feeling the burdens of being both a top Republican presidential contender and the heir to a political dynasty, as critics begin attacking his family's economic record just as he starts explaining what he would do to improve the nation's economy as president.
[READ: Jeb Bush, Unplugged]
The new scrutiny was generated by Bush's speech Wednesday to the Detroit Economic Club, where he praised his record as governor of Florida and called for standard conservative prescriptions in dealing with the nation's economy, such reducing federal regulations and tax reform.
Opponents pounced. NDN, a self-styled progressive think tank, raised the question of whether Jeb Bush's economic record would be any better than the records of his father, George H.W. Bush, and his brother, George W. Bush, who were both Republican presidents.
"Both Presidents Bush brought recession and larger annual budget deficits while Presidents (Bill) Clinton and (Barack) Obama brought strong job creation, smaller annual deficits and soaring stock markets. Given the track record of his family's time in the White House, and the success both recent Democratic presidents have had in cleaning up the mess they made, Jeb has a lot of work to do this cycle" to show that he would avoid the mistakes of his father and brother, said Simon Rosenberg, president of NDN, in a report to the media.
[MORE: Jeb's Likely Message on Obamacare: Repeal but Replace]
Rosenberg said Clinton and Obama far surpassed the Bushes in job growth, deficit reduction and other measures of economic progress.
Such claims will be debated endlessly if Bush enters the GOP presidential race as expected. And how Bush deals with the critique will go a long way toward determining his political fate.
He will also be compared with his father and brother on social issues such as how they handled immigration and education, and foreign policy matters such as terrorism and war with Iraq.
Bush addressed the question of his family history at the Detroit Economic Club. He said he would focus a potential presidential campaign on issues and everyday Americans, not on himself and his father and brother. He said he was also compared to his father and brother when he ran successfully for governor of Florida and he was able to establish his independence.
"Trust me, by the end of that, people knew that I wasn't just the brother of George W. and the son of my dad," Bush said, according to the New York Times. "I was my own person. I earned it." In a presidential campaign, he pledged to do the same thing "in a national scale."


