http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/Ken-Walshs-Washington/2015/01/30/dems-gop-fight-for-the-middle-class
Dems, GOP Fight for the Middle Class - US News
President Barack Obama and leaders of both major parties are making a mad scramble to court the middle class, which all sides agree will be the key to success in the 2016 elections and beyond.
"We need to stand up and go on offense and not be defensive about what we believe," Obama told House Democrats attending a retreat in Philadelphia Thursday evening, prompting members of his audience to applaud and cheer. "....I promise you I'm not going out the last two years sitting on the sidelines. I'm going to be out there making the case every single day."
[READ: Obama Not Backing Down]
Obama added: "Because you and I together made some tough choices, sometimes some politically unpopular choices, America has come back." He said that under his leadership, the economy is improving, with the national unemployment rate dropping and Wall Street thriving. But he said more needed to be done for middle-class Americans, such as giving them tax breaks and helping their kids go to college, and he called for higher federal spending on various middle-class programs.
Obama also pledged to veto bills passed by majority Republicans in Congress that are designed to undermine his initiatives such as his health care law and regulations on big financial institutions.
Obama's job approval rating has risen during the past few weeks from about 45 percent to 50 percent, as he moved aggressively to push a liberal agenda and bypass the GOP legislators with executive actions. His growing popularity has also brought more fellow Democrats into line behind him.
[READ: Obama's Approval Rate Hits 16-Month High]
"House Democrats by ourselves will never create the message," Rep. Steve Israel, D-N.Y., told reporters. "The message is the president. Instead of having 150 messengers with 150 messages, we need one message amplified over 150 messengers."
In private meetings in Philadelphia, House Democrats have been debating how to retake the House and help their party keep the White House in 2016. House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., told reporters, "It's going to be a presidential year, so we have to put on the table what we see as the big contrast in the House of Representatives. The presidential candidate will go forward with whatever agenda she has, or he."
Pelosi wasn't specific on all the distinctions she wants to draw, but her reference to the idea that the nominee will be a "she" was a reference to former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, the overwhelming favorite for the Democratic presidential nomination in opinion polls of Democrats.
There is a strong feeling among Democrats that the party needs to specifically address the issue of income inequality and the long-term wage stagnation of the middle class even though the overall economy is improving. This thinking is based on the idea that Democrats' policies are fine, but their PR strategy has been flawed and this lapse led to big Republican gains in the midterm elections of last November.
On Thursday, after meeting with fellow House Democrats in Philadelphia, Israel told reporters that the Democrats are "absolutely unified on three essential messages going forward. It's middle class, middle class, middle class. Everybody agreed that it has to be about the middle."
On the other side of the political divide, the Republican Party is also focusing on the middle class. But the GOP is divided on details and overall strategy, such as how aggressively to confront President Obama and whether the social issues that have benefited the GOP in the past, such as opposing abortion, have become less important than raising middle-class incomes.
When it comes to presidential candidates, polls suggest that Republican voters are more divided than they were in the 2012 primaries when a batch of lesser candidates took on front-runner Mitt Romney and failed to derail him from his path to the GOP presidential nomination. But the GOP challengers roughed Romney up so much, and their criticisms were picked up so effectively by Democrats, that he was damaged goods by the time of the general election. At that point, Romney appeared to be an insensitive and out-of-touch plutocrat. He lost to President Obama.
[OPINION: Mitt Romney Is Mixing Things Up for 2016]
Now Romney, a former investor and ex-governor of Massachusetts, is considering another race, his third, and he is nowhere near the GOP favorite he was the last time in the primaries. He has only a modest lead in polls of GOP preference, probably because of name recognition. There are about 15 other Republicans who are considering runs for the nomination and it's anybody's guess who will emerge the victor.
Their specific messages vary, but the GOP candidates are generally making the argument that they would be most helpful to the middle class, which decides American elections. Fighting wage stagnation and income inequality have become major themes, as they are for the Democrats, but GOP leaders say they would accomplish the mission in traditional conservative ways such as by lowering taxes and reducing regulations.

