Parties Continue Ideological Warfare
Both sides are making happy talk. But beneath the surface there are growing signs that congressional Democrats and Republicans are locked in an increasingly harsh battle over ideology as they struggle to define winners and losers during the remaining two years of Barack Obama's presidency.
[READ: New Democratic Committee to Improve Messaging Ahead of 2016]
There is a new populist fervor among some Democrats. This came across clearly this week when a key congressional leader, Rep. Chris Van Hollen, D-Md., announced a plan to give middle-class Americans a big tax break, financed by a levy on Wall Street traders and other high-income people. The measure would give a tax credit of about $2,000 annually to middle-income families, defined as couples making less than $200,000 per year, according to the Washington Post. Van Hollen would charge a fee on financial transactions and curtail tax breaks for top earners. Van Hollen says middle-class families need to keep more of what they earn, and Wall Street should be given fewer advantages.
Republicans fired back quickly. "Just as the sun rises in the east, Washington Democrats propose another massive tax increase," said Brendan Buck, a spokesman for House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan, R-Wis. "Here in the House our focus is going to be on cleaning up the tax code so that we can lower rates for all taxpayers and help create good-paying jobs, not scaring them off with punitive tax hikes."
This in turn led to a response from a spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, who said, "Apparently House Republicans only like tax relief if it's for their millionaire friends and special interest backers, not for hardworking middle-class families."
Republicans are pushing legislation of their own that is riling the Democrats. Legislators in the House led by Reps. Bob Goodlatte, R-Va., and Collin Peterson, D-Minn., are backing the Regulatory Accountability Act of 2015, which would make it more difficult for the Obama administration to impose new regulations in the areas of health, safety and environmental protection. Obama says he will veto the measure if it passes because the approach is extreme. But conservatives say the government's rules and regulations are slowing economic growth.
[ALSO: Local Economies Haven't Recovered From Recession Equally]
"Today, Americans face a burden of over $3 trillion from federal taxation and regulation," Goodlatte said. "In fact, our federal regulatory burden is larger than the 2013 Gross Domestic Product of all but the top 10 countries in the world and, most importantly, that burden adds up to $15,000 per American household, nearly 30 percent of average household income in 2013," Goodlatte added.
See Photos
In addition, Obama has threatened to veto several other GOP bills, including measures to approve the Keystone XL pipeline; limit Obama's actions to protect from deportation millions of people who entered the United States illegally, and weaken the Affordable Care Act, Obama's health care law.
After meeting at the White House Tuesday, Obama, congressional Democratic leaders and congressional Republican leaders said they were looking for ways to find common ground, especially on issues such as trade, cybersecurity and the use of military force against Islamic extremists. But, with conflicting legislation moving through the pipeline, the possibility for compromise and comity seems remote.



