Obama's Absence From Paris Rally Criticized
President Barack Obama's failure to attend a huge solidarity march in Paris to protest recent terrorist attacks is causing a backlash against him among both allies and opponents.
[OPINION: Obama Should Have Gone to Unity March in Paris After Charlie Hebdo Attacks]
Critics say Obama made a huge mistake by not attending the march Sunday and by not sending a senior-ranking U.S. representative to join leaders from other nations, including more than 40 heads of state and government. Among those who marched were French President Francois Hollande, British Prime Minister David Cameron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, and President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority.
See Photos
Citizens of France and much of Europe have been unsettled and angered by last week's terrorist attack in which 12 people were killed at the Paris offices of Charlie Hebdo, a satirical newspaper, and another attack two days later in which a gunman took hostages and killed four people at a kosher grocery in Paris.
Obama condemned the violent acts but his lack of attendance at the march was widely noted and criticized.
"I was puzzled that the United States did not have a high-level representative participating in the march," said former Rep. Lee Hamilton, D-Ind., who directs the Center on Congress at Indiana University and is a member of Obama's Homeland Advisory Council. Hamilton told the New York Times that, "It's a missed opportunity. This was a world-shaking event for Paris, and France has been a good ally of ours for decades. We should have been more visible in our support for an ally under duress."
"It's a poster child for tone deafness," Aaron David Miller, a former State Department official under Democratic and Republican presidents, told Politico. Miller said, "It's very much about symbolism. And France and the United States...embody the very propositions that are under attack."
[READ: Paris Attacks Bolster Europe's Far Right]
James Stavridis, dean of Tufts University's Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, added on Twitter: "I wish our U.S. president had gone to Paris to stand with our European allies."
Media commentators were strongly critical. A New York Daily News editorial on Page One referred to Obama Monday under the headline, "You let the world down."
White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest conceded that the administration should have sent a senior U.S. official specifically to attend the march. He offered no detailed explanation for the lapse but indicated that security concerns had played a part. Earnest pointed out that Obama called Hollande to express support and sympathy last Wednesday, and Obama visited the French Embassy in Washington to sign a condolence book last Thursday.


