http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/Ken-Walshs-Washington/2015/01/07/obama-gop-clash-over-keystone
Obama, GOP Clash Over Keystone
The new session of Congress has barely started, and President Barack Obama and majority Republicans already are rattling sabers at each other.
[ALSO: White House Vows to Veto Keystone XL Pipeline Bill]
Evidence that a bad relationship is getting worse came in Obama's latest warning to the GOP not to test his will on major issues such as the Keystone XL oil pipeline. On Tuesday, the president served notice that he would veto a bill approving construction of the controversial project, which would carry oil from Canada to refineries and ports in the United States. Republicans and some moderate Democrats say the pipeline would generate jobs and is needed to boost the economy. Obama and his allies say the employment creation possibilities are very limited and the potential environmental damage could be substantial.
See Photos
White House press secretary Josh Earnest told reporters, "It raises questions about the willingness of Republicans, to actually cooperate with this administration when you consider the very first bill that's introduced in the United States Senate [this year] is one the Republicans know the president opposes." Earnest said that, before making a final decision on whether to approve Keystone, Obama wants to wait for the State Department to compete a review of the project.
But Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky. issued a statement that, "The president threatening to veto the first bipartisan infrastructure bill of the new Congress must come as a shock to the American people who spoke loudly in November in favor of bipartisan accomplishments." Voters in the November midterm elections gave Senate control to the Republicans and added seats to the GOP majority in the House.
[KEYSTONE XL: The County-by-County Rundown]
The House is expected to pass the Keystone bill Friday, and the Senate is expected to approve the measure in the next few weeks.
Jack Gerard, president and CEO of the American Petroleum Institute, which supports the pipeline, told reporters, "I believe it doesn't bode well for relationships between the White House and Capitol Hill."
But Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, which opposes Keystone, said, "It's becoming more clear by the day that President Obama rightly recognizes this dirty and dangerous tar sands pipeline is a bad deal for our country."
If Obama rejects a pro-Keystone bill, supporters of the measure would need 67 votes in the Senate to override his veto, and reaching that number would be unlikely.
This would set up a long-term debate, with Republicans saying Obama is defying the will of Congress and the public, and fellow Democrats say Obama is standing up for his principles.
