White House fence jumper pleads guilty to two counts
Washington (CNN)The man who climbed the White House fence on Sept. 19 and charged up the North Lawn before unlawfully entering the President's residence has pled guilty to two federal charges stemming from the incident.
Omar Gonzalez was originally charged with two counts of felony assault on a police officer, four counts of resisting and unlawful entry, and one count of making threats. But in a plea deal with prosecutors, he will only be sentenced for one count of unlawful entry and one count of assaulting officers.
READ: Report: Drunk Secret Service agents crash into White House barrier
The charges carry maximum penalties of 10 years and and eight years respectively. He will be sentenced on June 8 and prosecutors have suggested a prison term of 12-18 months in addition to possible fines. Both parties have also agreed that Gonzalez be barred from entering the District of Columbia unless it is for a scheduled court appearance accompanied by his attorney.
A recommendation for Gonzalez to participate in a psychiatric evaluation so that the Secret Service is able to asses the risk of him reoffending will also be presented at sentencing.
"He is lucky to be alive," U.S. Attorney Machen said. "Mr. Gonzalez faces significant prison time because of his crime, and at sentencing we anticipate that he will barred from entering the District of Columbia and required to undergo psychiatric treatment."
According to law enforcement reports, around 7:19 p.m. Gonzalez climbed over the White House's north fence as Secret Service officers began running towards him, commanding him to stop and get down. Ignoring the orders, Gonzalez continued towards the residence, gaining access through the north doors of the White House.
READ: Gate-crashing agents make 4 Secret Service scandals in 3 years
Inside, according to the reports, Gonzalez knocked a uniform officer backwards before another officer arrived and tackled him inside the White House. A folding knife was found in his pants pocket and, after Gonzalez consented to a search of his vehicle, officers discovered "hundreds of rounds of ammunition, in boxes and in magazine, two hatchets, and a machete."
"We hope that this prosecution deters others in the future from taking any actions that threaten the first family, the White House, and the public servants who work there," U.S. Attorney Machen said.


