Obama Readies for Battle With GOP in 2015
President Barack Obama sees 2015 as a year of likely confrontation with Republicans who will control Congress starting in January.
His recent remarks suggest that Obama is eager to draw contrasts with his opposition in order to cast Republicans in a bad light and underscore his argument that he and fellow Democrats are on the side of the middle class. His ultimate goal is to frame the political debate for the 2016 national election in a way that enhances prospects for the next Democratic presidential nominee and the party's other candidates, Democratic strategists say.
[READ: What Pissed Off the Tea Party in 2014]
"There are going to be some areas where we disagree and, you know, I haven't used the veto pen very often since I've been in office," Obama told NPR in an interview released Monday. Now I suspect there are going to be some times where I've got to pull that pen out." He has only vetoed legislation twice in his presidency so far. But he warned, "I'm going to defend gains that we've made in health care. I'm going to defend gains that we've made on environment and clean air and clean water."
In November's midterm elections, the Republicans took control of the Senate where the GOP will have a 54-46 majority starting next month. Republicans also added to their majority in the House where the GOP margin will be 247-188.
If Obama does veto Republican legislation, such as on tax breaks for corporations or efforts to block his immigration initiatives, GOP leaders are likely to attempt to override his vetoes if they can get a handful of Democrats to join with them. Democratic and Republican strategists say those battles will be ferocious.
Obama held out hope for some sort of compromise, at least occasionally. Obama said, "You've got Republicans in a position where it's not enough for them simply to grind the wheels of Congress to a halt and then blame me. They are going to be in a position in which they have to show that they can responsibly govern, given that the have significant majorities in both chambers."
Obama argued that his economic policies are succeeding, calling attention to a boom in the stock market and lower unemployment, which has dropped to 5.8 percent nationally from 10 percent in 2009. He said such progress "is liberating in the sense that a lot of the work that we've done is now beginning to bear fruit."
[READ: Obama's Rosy Outlook Ignores Middle-Class Reality]
But incoming Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said, "Bipartisan jobs bills will see the light of day and will make it to the president's desk, and he'll have to make decisions about ideology versus creating jobs for the middle class. There's a lot we can get done together if the president puts his famous pen to use signing bills rather than vetoing legislation his liberal allies don't like."
Both Democrats and Republicans are trying to figure out ways to end wage and income stagnation for the middle class, which has made many voters pessimistic about the future. But there do not appear to be quick fixes. "I don't think there are long passes," Robert Reischauer, former director of the Congressional Budget Office, told the New York Times, using a football metaphor. "We're in a ground game that will take many years."
Obama also told NPR that despite highly publicized tensions between African Americans and white police officers in recent months, and the fatal shooting of two police officers in New York this month, racial tensions are not rising overall. He said mistrust between minorities and police is "hardly new." He added: "I assure you, from the perspective of African Americans or Latinos in poor communities who have been dealing with this all their lives, they wouldn't suggest somehow that it's worse now than it was 10, 15 or 20 years ago." He said the ongoing conversation about race within the United States "should make us optimistic."
Asked whether the nation is more racially divided today than when he took office in January 2009 as the first African American president, Obama said, "No, I actually think that it's probably in its day-to-day interactions less racially divided. But I actually think that the issue has surfaced in a way that probably is healthy."


