http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/Ken-Walshs-Washington/2014/12/12/obama-angers-liberals-in-budget-vote
Obama Angers Liberals in Budget Vote
President Barack Obama combined forces with opposition Republicans to win a narrow budget victory in the House of Representatives Thursday night, but it came at a high political cost because he alienated many liberals who opposed parts of measure.
White House aides said Obama made several last-minute phone calls to persuade wavering fellow Democrats to support the legislation. The $1.1 trillion spending package passed the Republican-controlled House on a vote of 219-206 with fewer than three hours to go until government funding expired. The measure now goes to the Senate, where its fate is unclear.
The House showdown showed the difficulty Obama will have in getting his way on Capitol Hill during the final two years of his presidency. Now it is Democratic liberals who are obstacles to legislative compromise in addition to Republican conservatives.
[READ: Deficit Hits New Low Under Obama]
Obama's spokesman said the president opposed key provisions in the bill to ease Wall Street regulations and allow higher campaign donations in some cases. Many fellow Democrats also opposed those provisions, and their opposition almost sank the measure. House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi, Calif., said in a speech to the House, "I'm enormously disappointed that the White House feels that the only way they can get a bill is to go along with this."
But Obama argued that it was important to get the measure passed rather than let the government shut down.
In the end, 139 Democrats voted against the bill and 57 Democrats voted for it.
On the Republican side, 162 GOP legislators voted for the bill and 67 voted against it.
[READ: Obama Doubts Immigration Rollback]
Democrats who favored the bill pointed out that the Republicans will take control of the Senate in January because they won a majority in the midterm election last month. When that power shift happens, these Democrats argued, the GOP will control both the House and the Senate, and the GOP majority would make the bill even more conservative so it was best to pass the current version.
The fight over the bill has given new prominence to Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., a liberal who has taken a big role in rallying Democrats on the left on various issues. She strenuously opposes the measure." A vote for this bill is a vote for future taxpayer bailouts of Wall Street," Warren told the Senate Thursday. Some Democrats want Warren to run for president in 2016.
