What to Do About Renee Ellmers
After leading the charge against the House vote on the Pain-Capable Unborn Children Protection Act, North Carolina Republican Rep. Renee Ellmers finds herself with a lot fewer friends in Washington than she had just weeks ago.
The proposed legislation stops abortions after 20 weeks – when modern science tells us babies in utero smile, suck their thumbs, and feel pain, among other human attributes – except in cases of rape, incest and where the life of the mother would be jeopardized if the pregnancy were allowed to continue. It’s a common sense measure that enjoys broad support among Democrats and independents, as well as Republicans.
Ellmers' perfidy has turned former friends into intractable foes. Her political future is a constant topic of conversation, with many of her former supporters concluding she doesn’t have any, no matter how hard House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (who has visited her congressional district on several occasions and is the presumptive successor to John Boehner as speaker) and others in the GOP leadership work to secure her re-election. She has alienated what is affectionately termed the grassroots – the folks back home who are passionate adherents to the pro-life cause and will avenge their betrayal at the next opportunity.
At least that’s the way it is supposed to play out. In reality it’s just a bit more complicated than that. As mad as people are right now, two years (more like 18 months) is a long time in which bridges can be rebuilt and wounds can heal. Even if they can’t, however, the axiom that you cannot beat someone with no one still must be addressed.
[SEE: Congress Cartoons]
Indeed, for many groups on the right, the desire to hold members of the House and Senate “accountable” and, one presumes, ideologically pure, has become a reason for existence. Angry letters and emails expressing frustration at continued betrayals by elected officials who are not devoted enough to “the cause” are an excellent way to raise money. As a mechanism for winning elections though, they come up a bit short.
Actually, the whole business turns on the ability to recruit candidates to put their names on the dotted line and run. It’s a job that much-maligned party organizations like the National Republican Senatorial Committee and the National Republican Congressional Committee are set up to do – and which independent groups, at least those on the right, do not do at all well.
Beating an incumbent in a party primary is a very difficult task, eight times out of 10. The odds are against the challenger for reasons that should be obvious to everyone. That also means that the margin for error on the insurgent side is very, very small. Sometimes, though, they prevail in a bruising contest only to be clobbered in the general election.
That’s because, most often, the insurgents are chosen from among those who have already stepped up. They may not be the best candidate. They may not, as in the case of Delaware’s Christine O’Donnell (to name but one) even be a good one. Choosing the horse to ride from among those offered is rarely as good an option as being able to go to the barn yourself and picking one.
Ellmers will have the power of the party and her colleagues in Congress at her disposal along with all the privileges her office provides. This is why so many targeted and ideologically-tainted candidates still manage to prevail in their primaries. It is not enough to persuade the voters to “fire” the incumbent; the challengers must also convince a sufficient portion of the electorate that they are a better choice. All too often in primaries the challenger does the former quite well while failing utterly to make the case that the latter is also true.
[READ: Rep. Renee Ellmers Derails GOP 20 Week Abortion Ban]
If those who feel they have been betrayed by Ellmers are serious about extracting their pound of flesh, they must take the recruitment process seriously. It is not enough to settle on a self-funder who, sensing an opportunity, is prepared to seize the opportunity. Whether or not a potential challenger can raise enough money to make the race is not nearly as important as the part of the district they are from, their background and personal story, any character flaws or ethical problems they may have that are heretofore undisclosed and, if they are an elected officials or party officer, the votes they have cast and positions they have taken on key issues.
To know these things requires boots on the ground that can research the candidate and his or her history, talk to the regional powerbrokers and influencers, canvass potential primary voters and caucus attendees, and produce a realistic assessment of the chances for victory even if everything doesn’t go the way they want.
Certainly Ellmers deserved to be called to account for derailing the planned effort to, once again, see this particular piece of legislation pass in the House. In the last Congress, she not only voted for it, she was a co-sponsor and spoke in favor of it on the House floor. Whether a primary challenge is the right way to do it will only be clear after a concerted effort is made by those who wish to see her defeated to recruit into the race a candidate who can win the primary and the general election. In politics, as in life, there is little point to cutting off one’s nose to spite one’s face.

