Ellmers Leads GOP Off Track on Abortion
At 20 weeks, unborn babies can recognize their mother’s voice, smile, suck their thumbs and feel pain. It is little surprise therefore that an effort to ban most abortions after that milestone has been reached have for some time been gaining ground in Washington and in state capitals around the nation.
In fact just such a bill passed the House last year, with bipartisan support. And it looked like the same bill was on its way to passing easily in the U.S. House of Representatives this week coinciding with the annual “March for Life” that brings tens of thousands of activists to the nation’s capital in protest of the United States Supreme Court’s ruling in the landmark Roe vs. Wade (and Doe vs. Bolton) cases on the anniversary of the date the decisions were handed down.
All systems were go until North Carolina Republican Rep. Renee Ellmers went to the press just about a week ago to announce she was reaching for the chicken switch and pulling hard.
[READ: Views You Can Use: GOP Women Scrap Abortion Ban]
Ellmers' comments to the venerable National Journal, a Washington-insiders publication that covers the nexus of policy-making and politics like few can, set off a firestorm. Ultimately an angry and contentious members’ only meeting of the House Republican Conference produced a decision to swap the bill for an anti-abortion measure some felt would be less controversial then the one on which they were scheduled to vote.
The replacement measure passed easily – but so did the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act (the official name of the bill cutting off abortions after 5 months into a pregnancy save for extraordinary reasons) when it was up before the House in the last Congress – with Ellmers one of the many pro-life Republicans voting in favor.
The legislation, or something like it, has the support of a majority of the American people. A November 2014 Quinnipiac poll showed that 60 percent support for the bill overall, with 56 percent of independents and 46 percent of Democrats saying they approved of the measure.
[READ: Anti-Abortion Marchers Mad ... at the GOP]
People who work the abortion issue on the pro-life side are mystified as to why Ellmers choose to make her fight in the media rather than take it privately to Kevin McCarthy who, as Republican majority leader, is responsible for what comes to the floor and when. Taking the argument public at the last minute, as she did, may have produced a short-term victory but in doing so created long-term problems that will not be solved simply by bringing the original bill up for a vote later in the year.
House Speaker John Boehner, at whose feet lies none of the blame for this debacle, attempted in his message to the March for Life to refocus the discussion on why they were all there and what was really important. “Growing up with 11 brothers and sisters, I didn’t need to be told or taught that every child is a gift from God. Respect for the sanctity of innocent life has made me who I am, and it is what has made America, America,” Boehner said in a statement marking the occasion.
“This march is part of a longer one, and our destination is clear: to secure and protect the rights of every unborn child. When there is disagreement, we should pause and listen closely. When there is movement, we should rejoice, and the House’s vote to ban taxpayer funding of abortion is cause for doing so,” Boehner continued.
[SEE: Political Cartoons on the Republican Party]
The pro-life movement put the best face it could on the last minute swap. In a joint statement, Marjorie Dannenfelser, the president of Susan B. Anthony List, Jeanne Monahan, the president of March for Life Education and Defense Fund, and Penny Nance, CEO and president of Concerned Women for America Legislative Action Committee said: “While we are disappointed that the House will not be voting on the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act today, we are pleased that the House is moving forward to stop taxpayer funding of abortion."
“We support Majority Leader McCarthy's call for a prompt vote on Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act this Congress and we will be working with the House Republican leadership to ensure the maximum number of votes,” they added. “We will also be working with the bill’s sponsor Senator Lindsey Graham to continue advancing this measure in the U.S. Senate. Both the House Leadership and Senator Graham have assured us they are not backing down.
Nonetheless Ellmers, who was an accidental winner in her first race for Congress, may have effectively burned her bridges with the pro-life community that was so important to her initial victory and helped considerably in her efforts to fend off a primary challenge in the last election. She has put herself into the political crosshairs of people who were once her strong supporters and is going to need a lot more than the continued backing of McCarthy and other members of the GOP leadership to hang onto her seat.

