http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2015/01/13/mitt-romneys-interest-in-the-2016-presidential-race-should-be-welcomed
Make Your Case, Mitt
For those who haven’t been following the political news, be forewarned: Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney is apparently thinking about taking another shot at that whole presidential thing.
If the published reports are to be believed, he’s been meeting with key advisers from his unsuccessful 2008 big for the GOP nomination and his failed 2012 run for the presidency to plot out a strategy for a third bid in 2016.
It’s a bold idea. Only a handful of men have ever won the White House after first having lost it as major party nominee. The last was Richard Nixon – who (arguably) lost the 1960 contest to John F. Kennedy but came back eight years later to win by defeating Vice President Hubert Humphrey and Alabama Gov. George Wallace in a three-way race.
[SEE: 2014: The Year in Cartoons]
The historical tides notwithstanding, Romney still has much to commend him as a candidate. He has proven he can assemble the 3 M’s of modern presidential campaigning: message, money and a political machine.
That they have not thus far been effective is self-evident but not necessarily disqualifying. In the business world, Romney established a reputation as someone who knew instinctively how to turn failing enterprises into successful ones. These abilities may translate into the political arena as well, though only time will tell.
If there is a caution it comes in the way Romney has chosen to modify his image since the last election. He has, for example, come out in favor of an increase in the federal minimum wage – which may help strengthen his appeal to the so-called Obama voters or at least take what may have been a damaging issue in 2012 off the table for the 2016 general election. Unfortunately, there is wide agreement among economists that an increase in the minimum wage is a job killer that does more harm than good to the sector of the economy it's supposed to help. This will, no doubt, give his potential opponents in the upcoming primary the opening they need to ask if and when he might be willing to accept and advocate bad policies in the name of political expediency.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on the Republican Party]
Romney’s main job now is to come up with reasons for people to vote for him in the primary. In 2012, some on the right made the argument he was “conservative enough” while at the same time possessing potential “blue state” appeal. This meant he, unlike the other candidates in the race, had the potential to pull states like Michigan and Pennsylvania, where the Republicans have not been presidentially competitive for some time, back into the GOP column.
It didn’t turn out that way; indeed the 2012 contest became a kind of “base election” where both candidates ran behind what John McCain polled in losing the 2008 race and Obama picked off states from Republican ranks.
[READ: Voters Just Aren't That Into Mitt]
Rather than view the 2016 contest as resurrecting the GOP establishment (an easy conclusion to reach when the only two people clearly considering the race are Romney and former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush), the upcoming race represents a real opportunity for serious candidates from every part of the Republican Party to make their case to the voters. In an odd sense, the primary may be just the kind of mixing bowl the GOP needs to refresh its bank of ideas and sharpen its policy prescriptions. America wants a change – and this time it’s a change the can see, understand and endorse. The bilious bromides that twice got Obama elected will not do a third time. It’s time for serious people with real records of accomplishment to enter the arena, vying for the affections and allegiance of the American voter.
The nation is in retreat on all fronts. It’s time for a leader to turn things around. Whether or not Mitt Romney is, finally, that man remains to be seen. His interest in the race should be welcomed.
