http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2014/12/29/nypd-cops-deserve-more-credit-that-theyve-gotten-from-the-left
Open Season on Cops
It’s all too easy to blame the police. To some people, it’s a nasty habit that has the seams of our civil society stretched to the breaking point. Somehow, someway, we all woke up one morning to discover that, for cops, it had become open season.
Two shot dead in New York while eating lunch in their cruiser. Others have reportedly been fired on in Los Angeles, Louisiana and North Carolina. And how do the police respond? Do they refuse to go to work? Is there a sudden outbreak of the “blue flu” across the land? No, a handful of them choose to turn their backs on New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio during his remarks at the funeral of Officer Rafael Ramos – and they’re being criticized.
[SEE: 2014: The Year in Cartoons]
If that’s a show of disrespect and insubordination, it’s about the most polite one in my memory. Nobody rioted, no one burned down an auto parts store, there was no looting, and there aren’t any agitators on the television making threats against the general public. Even Patrick Lynch, head of the New York City’s largest police union, has been measured in his remarks and did not overtly endorse the actions taken by the rank and file at Ramos’ funeral.
The politicians like de Blasio, metaphorically in bed with the likes of Al Sharpton and other of his ilk for political gain, are reaping what they have sown. You can only tell lies to people for so long before they start believing them, not uniquely but especially among the poor, the disadvantaged, and those who have been told all their lives that the white, the rich and the powerful have purposefully disenfranchised them.
We’ve seen this before. It happened in the 1920s, in the years before the American Socialist Party was subsumed into the national Democratic coalition. It happened in the 60s, when Bill Ayers and the Weather Underground, Abbie Hoffman and the Yippies, Tom Hayden and the Students for a Democratic Society, and others in what has been benignly consigned to the historical record as a social protest movement tried to turn the nation’s cities into a kind of war zone – with the only thing separating the lot of us from anarchy being the thin blue line of local law enforcement.
Do the police ever abuse their authority? Sure they do. Are there bad cops on the beat in cities and towns all across the country? Absolutely, but we must believe the vast majority are dedicated, hard-working men and women who go to work each and every day knowing they may not come home.
[OPINION: NYPD Should Be Ashamed for Turning Backs on Mayor de Blasio]
They deserve a little more credit than they have been getting of late from de Blasio, President Barack Obama, Attorney General Eric Holder, certain members of Congress from the blue states, and social critics whose biggest accomplishments involve getting in front of a bank of television cameras.
Should the cops in New York (some of whom came from outside the city and outside the state to attend the funeral) have turned their backs on the mayor? Probably not – but one can certainly understand their feelings, given they are asked to put their lives on the line every day for folks like de Blasio who, while living in one of the nation’s greatest and perhaps (thanks to former Mayor Rudy Giuliani) safest big cities, seem a little too eager to make them scapegoats for what years of failed liberal municipal policies have wrought.
