<<<<<<< HEAD
http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2014/11/04/election-day-2014-and-how-to-spot-a-gop-wave
=======
>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
How to Spot a GOP Wave on Election Night
There’s a lot at stake for both parties in Tuesday’s election. The president is not on the ballot but, in an effort to turn out his supporters, he has said his policies are. A good night for the GOP in the battle for control of Congress could therefore be seen as an expression of the electorate’s desire for change in Washington.
The country’s patience with President Barack Obama is growing thin. He has failed to deliver on most of his campaign promises and now leads a nation that is more sharply divided along partisan lines than it has been for many years. So much for the “post partisan” era the pundits said his election augured.
The 2014 election though is not just about Washington. A number of the governors seeking re-election have national aspirations. The outcome of these contests, and a few where a retiring incumbent has presidential aspirations – Texas and Maryland come immediately to mind – will not only shape the 2016 election but have a lot to say about the issues over which it will be contested.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on 2014 Congressional Elections]
Here are some of the things to watch on election night as the returns come in:
6 p.m. EST – The polls begin to close in parts of Kentucky and Indiana.
The marquee race here is the one between Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell and Kentucky Secretary of State Alison Lundergan Grimes. The eastern part of the state is coal country, traditionally union and Democrat. If McConnell starts off the night with a big enough lead in these counties this race – which was supposed to be close – could be called early, meaning the Republicans may have a very good night.
7 p.m. EST – Polls closed in the rest of Indiana and Kentucky as well as in the eastern part of Florida, Georgia, much of New Hampshire, South Carolina, Vermont and Virginia.
There’s a lot to watch here – and it will be interesting to see if the television networks remember the lesson of the 2000 election: that Florida balloting happens in two time zones, so don’t call anything until the western half of the state closes the polls at 8 p.m. EST or you are going to confuse a lot of people. Over the years, it has been an observable trend that tight races where the Democrat leads tend to be called early while in similar races where the Republican is ahead it can be several hours before the network poll watchers are convinced.
In Georgia, the race for governor between incumbent Republican Nathan Deal and state. Sen. Jason Carter, the grandson of the former president, and the U.S. Senate contest between David Perdue, the brother of former Georgia Gov. Sonny Perdue, and Democrat Michelle Nunn, daughter of former Democratic U.S. Sen. Sam Nunn, will likely go late into the night. Unlike most states, Georgia requires the winner to also receive more than 50 percent of the vote, which could push the Senate race to a January runoff.
Also watch New Hampshire, where incumbent Democrat Sen. Jeanne Shaheen and Republican Scott Brown are tied in the polls. If the GOP jumps out to a big lead and takes with it one of the state's two congressional seats, the Republicans are having a good night. If they also carry in with them a new governor, then it is highly likely a wave election is underway.
In Virginia, there is an open congressional seat in the 10th district where Democrat John Foust had the backing of national party surrogates against Republican Barbara Comstock in a race that was supposed to be tight. If she wins big, the reports of the Virginia GOP’s demise have been greatly exaggerated. If the U.S. Senate contest between incumbent Democrat Mark Warner and Republican Ed Gillespie, a former chairman of his party’s national committee, is even closer than expected, it also points to a GOP wave. If Gillespie wins, a call that will not be made until late, then the GOP has secured a majority in the U.S. Senate.
[SEE: Congress Cartoons]
7:30 p.m. EST – Polls closed in North Carolina, Ohio and West Virginia.
The big race in this block is the contest for U.S. Senate between incumbent Kay Hagan, the Democrat, and Republican Thom Tillis, the current speaker of the North Carolina House of Representatives. Hagan has led narrowly and within the margin of error for much of the race because she has been running against Tillis’ considerable record of accomplishment, a luxury most of the other Democrats in her Senate class don’t have. A Hagan win would be unsurprising, unless it is called early, which might indicate the GOP’s hoped-for wave didn’t materialize. Still, expect the GOP to pick up at least one additional seat in the U.S. House of Representatives in the state no matter how the Senate race turns out.
In Ohio, the big question is not whether incumbent Republican Gov. John Kasich will win but by how much. His Democratic opponent, Cuyahoga County Executive Ed FitzGerald, started out strong and then self-destructed. A big Kasich win – by 10 points or more – boosts him as a possible candidate for the GOP’s 2016 national ticket in a big way.
In West Virginia, Republican Shelly Moore Capito is a safe bet to be the first of her party to represent the state in the U.S. Senate since the 1950s, largely thanks to Obama’s efforts to kill the American coal industry. If it’s a good night for the GOP, it will also come out of the election with all three of the state’s congressional seats, though the Democrats are making a hard fight over the open 2nd district, which Moore Capito is giving up to run for Senate.
8 p.m. EST – Polls closed in Alabama, Connecticut, Delaware, the western part of Florida, Illinois, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, parts of Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, New Jersey, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Tennessee and most of Texas.
There’s a lot to watch for here, especially among the governors’ races. Expect close contests that will go late in Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Maine, Michigan and Rhode Island. If there is a GOP wave, then it will also be a late call in Maryland, where Republican Larry Hogan has been surging against Democratic Lt. Gov. Anthony Brown in the closing weeks of the campaign. Incumbent Gov. Martin O’Malley wants to run for president; if he can’t hand off the governorship to his hand-picked successor it may derail his future plans.
Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Corbett, who never seemed to find his footing, is expected to lose to Democrat businessman Tom Wolf in a race that should be called minutes after the polls close. Likewise, if the late polls are to be believed, Republican Charlie Baker will defeat Massachusetts Attorney General Martha Coakley in the governor’s race there, but don’t expect an early call.
Another race to watch in this block will be the Texas gubernatorial contest between Republican Greg Abbot and Democrat Wendy Davis. The race should be called quickly for Abbot, but the interesting thing will be to see how far Davis drags the rest of the ticket down with her and how it changes the composition of the Texas Legislature.
[SEE: Democrat Cartoons]
8:30 p.m. EST – Polls closed in Arkansas.
The big question is how long it will be before the U.S. Senate race between incumbent Democrat Mark Pryor and Republican Tom Cotton is called. Arkansas is in transition from a solidly one-party Democratic state to a mostly GOP state.
9:00 p.m. EST – Polls closed in Arizona, Colorado, most of Kansas, Louisiana, the remainder of Michigan, Minnesota, Nebraska, New Mexico, New York, South Dakota, Wisconsin and Wyoming.
By now it should be clear what kind of night each party is having. Either the wave materialized or it didn't. Either it’s an anti-incumbent election or it isn't. I’m betting on the former and not the latter.
The key U.S. Senate race in this block is in Kansas, where incumbent Republican Pat Roberts has been closely behind independent Greg Orman. At one point, it was thought a GOP loss would leave the Senate in Democratic hands. That’s no longer the case, and while Orman has a slight edge, it would be a mistake to count Roberts out. If Orman wins, expect an early call.
As interesting as that race is, the gubernatorial contests in Wisconsin, Kansas and Michigan – where first-term GOP incumbents have all run behind, come back and been tied with their Democratic opponents – are far more important in terms of policy. The three governors of these states have all challenged the liberal welfare state machine head on and won important reforms in the tax code, in labor law, and in the relationship between state government and government employee unions. Loses here would set back the cause of reform for some time to come.
Look also for a smattering of GOP pickups in the U.S. House, especially in New York, where the party is still battling back from losses it suffered in 2006 and 2008. The Louisiana Senate race – where a victory with more than 50 percent of the vote is also required – is likely to go to a December runoff.
[READ: Republicans Look Good in 2016 Senate Race Too]
10:00 p.m. EST – Polls closed in parts of Idaho, Iowa, Montana, Nevada, parts of North Dakota, parts of Oregon and Utah.
The races to watch in this block include the Iowa Senate race, where Republican Joni Ernst is in a tight contest against Democratic Rep. Bruce Braley, and Utah’s open 4th congressional district, where Mia Love may become the first African-American Republican woman ever elected to the U.S. House of Representatives.
11:00 p.m. EST – Polls closed in California, Hawaii, the remainder of North Dakota, the remainder of Oregon and Washington State.
1:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. EST – Polls closed in Alaska.
If the talk of a GOP wave election was accurate, this is just a formality. If things shape up closer than the polls and other factors indicate, it may be worth staying up to see if the winner of the Alaska Senate race is Democratic incumbent Mark Begich or his GOP challenger, former Bush administration official Dan Sullivan, because control of the U.S. Senate may come down to this race.
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
