<<<<<<< HEAD
http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2014/10/22/democrats-reach-for-the-panic-button-in-2014-elections
=======
>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
Democrats Reaching for the Panic Button
In strategy sessions all over Washington, Democratic operatives are reaching for the panic button. They won’t say it publicly – it would be bad form to do so – but privately some of them are beginning to concede the battle for control of Congress is all but over, and the Republicans have won.
Just look at the last-minute movements in spending by the party and by liberal groups who have pulled out of a Senate race in Kentucky they expected to win in order to shore up vulnerable incumbents in Louisiana and Colorado – places they expected they would be safe. The polls may indicate otherwise – most all have many of the key races as too close to call or within the margin of error – but that depends on the validity of the numbers.
Polling is a pseudo-science, meaning it uses statistical models to predict where the electorate may be on a given moment. Over time those polls are supposed to show trends that indicate who’s ahead, who is behind and the general direction of the race. What comes out, however, depends on what goes in, meaning the sample has to reliably reflect the composition of the electorate as it will be on Election Day if, for statistical purposes, it can be considered valid.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on 2014 Congressional Elections]
This is not a small point; indeed it’s exactly where things may be breaking down. In several recent elections some Republicans, unhappy with the tone of the campaign and the policies of their party, began to call themselves “independents” – at least for the purposes of answering questions from pollsters. Yet when it came time to vote, they voted as they normally would, meaning the sample of independents had become tainted by partisans who would not admit what they were. This threw the numbers off because it distorted their relative accuracy. It may also be why some GOP pundits in particular seemed so surprised as the numbers started to roll in in 2012 that showed Barack Obama had won re-election handily, albeit with fewer votes than he got in 2008.
In the current campaign, as several pollsters have advised me, Democrats are now doing what Republicans had done in those three previous races. They are telling pollsters they are “independents” rather than loyal party members – which may have the effect of inflating the support shown for the party’s candidates in key states and key races.
Even if the polling data is more right than wrong, however, the GOP is poised on the edge of a big win. The apparent success the GOP has had locking down the A-list Senate races – e.g., those in states carried by Mitt Romney in 2012 – has given the party room to maneuver, expanding the number of seats where it can be active. This has forced Democrats to retrench, ramping up their efforts to protect vulnerable incumbents and staking their hopes on a few wild-card seats like Georgia and South Dakota where they might be able to push the game into overtime (through a run-off in the former state and by helping elect an independent candidate in the latter).
In Virginia, for example, hopes for a come-from-behind win by former Republican National Committee Chairman Ed Gillespie – for whom my daughter works as an unpaid volunteer – have been invigorated by a severe misstep by Democratic Sen. Mark Warner.
[READ: Is This the Particle or Wave Election?]
As reported by The Washington Post and other news outlets, the son of a now-retired Virginia Democratic state senator informed federal investigators that Warner “discussed the possibility of several jobs, including a federal judgeship” that could be arranged for then-state Sen. Phil Puckett’s daughter as part of an inducement to keep him from resigning his GOP-leaning seat in the evenly divided Virginia Senate, fearing a vacancy might (and in fact did) trigger a special election that would give Republicans control of the chamber.
The potential deal, which some GOP operatives are now calling #Bribestorm – a thinly veiled reference to a Warner spokesman’s tortured contention that no job was actually offered (which some legal experts say would clearly have been a crime) but that the senator and Puckett’s son had merely “brainstormed” – has helped tarnish Warner’s bipartisan halo. There aren’t yet any reliable post-#Bribestorm public polls to act as a guide to gauge the impact of the scandal but the Gillespie campaign thought it a serious enough issue that it invested money in a considerable ad buy devoted to the subject. What it has done is make Warner, in the crucial last weeks of the campaign, strangely unavailable so that he doesn’t have to answer questions about what he said, what he promised to whom and when.
Warner’s not the only Democrat generally thought safe who might be in trouble. New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker faces troubling questions over his role in the emerging “Watershed Scandal,” which involves the financial dealings of the Newark Watershed Conservation and Development Corporation when Booker was chairman and has reportedly become the target of a federal investigation. Meanwhile, Rep. Gary Peters of Michigan now finds himself answering questions about whether he misstated essential facts about his military service. Both those races look to be going the Democrats’ way right now – but bad news could capsize either campaign very quickly.
[READ: The Real 'War on Women']
Moreover, that’s the story for the Democrats in more contested races than not. One misstep between now and Election Day, no matter how small, could be the snowball that starts an avalanche. Turnout is therefore key to both party’s prospects for victory.
A recent memo by one Obama pollster cited by the New York Times suggests the so-called “Obama vote” may not be at all enthusiastic about turning out without him on the ballot. A depressed turnout among this critical block of voters would boost the GOP’s numbers in Congress considerably. Meanwhile the Democrats are moving money into places like Georgia, where they believe they suddenly have a chance to win back a U.S. Senate seat and South Dakota where they think they can keep the GOP from winning one, even if it means electing an independent, in order to keep Nevada’s Harry Reid installed as Senate majority leader.
That Republicans are not more confident of victory can be explained by their overconfidence in 2012. Certain they were going to win then, they are not about to let themselves get burned by making similar assumptions about 2014, only to have them turn out to be untrue. If this makes the GOP more timid than it otherwise might be then the party of Lincoln will end up leaving seats on the table they could have won. The wave is forming, how big it is and where it hits is something we’ll know in about two weeks.
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
