Columbus Day Reconsidered
For some out to prove a point, America is a fundamentally perhaps even fatally flawed concept that cannot be redeemed. To them the country we are today – this citadel of freedom and democracy – was stolen from the people already on the continent when the Europeans first arrived and brought to economic greatness on the backs of black slaves.
That this is a severely distorted, even one-sided view of history that ignores very real, sometimes unpleasant truths that those who want to rechristen the holiday just celebrated as “Indigenous Peoples’ Day” –as Seattle and Minneapolis, for example, have – choose to ignore.
To make them feel good about themselves, to align themselves with the victims of society, the self-appointed guardians of social justice – in an affront to Italian-Americans who call the day their own – want to wipe Columbus Day off the calendar. They’re wrong of course but it is a holiday whose meaning begs to be broadened to honor not just Christopher Columbus but every person who has come to these shores in search of adventure, religious freedom, economic prosperity or a better life – if not for themselves than for their children and grandchildren.
Columbus Day could – and probably should – be the day on which the nation pauses to reflect on the contributions made to our combined successes by people who were born somewhere else. There are certainly many worthy of honor who added much to the nation’s economic, cultural, scientific, political, diplomatic, artistic and commercial successes over the years. Likewise there are those who are today making their mark on the United States – people like Sens. Ted Cruz of Texas and Florida’s Marco Rubio and President Barack Obama – who had at least one parent born outside this country. As I have written many times before, immigrants help build this country and make it great.
[: Cartoons about Congress]
My own people came here from Europe sometime well after the Civil War but likely before the turn of the century. Like my ancestors, most of the people coming to the U.S. today are doing so because their upward advancement is blocked by a religious, economic, geographic, political, linguistic, ethnic or otherwise artificial barrier in their home country they cannot overcome. The only way to escape the cultural and economic poverty in which they are mired is to, literally, escape to the United States – which not everyone chooses to do, unfortunately, through lawful means and in recognized ways.
From Columbus forward immigrants – as I first wrote several years ago – have made the United States stronger, richer, healthier, and, most importantly, a better place. To honor them on Columbus Day keeps alive the idea of America as a “shining city on a hill” beckoning to all who seek a better life. It is certainly an appropriate time to reflect on what Congress is attempting to do as it takes up the reform of our immigration laws, making them more humane, more welcoming, and easier to navigate for those who want to come to America to work hard. As they prosper, we all prosper.

