Nothing's the Matter With Kansas
The dominant political story of the 2014 cycle has been the battle for control of the United States Senate because, like football, it’s compelling and at the same time easy to explain. Reporters covering Senate races don’t have to know too much about policy questions, voter blocs or election history to write about who is ahead, who is behind and how it all adds up in each party’s effort to get to 51 seats.
This means, of course, that other races that should get attention don’t. In particular, there are three gubernatorial contests where the Democrats and their allies in the public employee unions and so-called social welfare organizations are out for blood because failure means the eventual destruction of their political coalition.
They are, for example, going all out to defeat Michigan Republican Gov. Rick Snyder for, in their minds at least, having the unmitigated gall to allow his state to adopt a “right to work” law over the objections of the once all-powerful United Auto Workers.
[GALLERY: Cartoons on the 2014 Congressional Elections]
It’s also hand-to-hand combat in Wisconsin (with a healthy dose of prosecutorial misconduct thrown in) where Republican Gov. Scott Walker – who has already survived one attempt to recall him – is campaigning on the success of his reforms that have turned a projected deficit into a surplus, reorganized the state government workforce and helped local communities save tens of millions of dollars. That these reforms came directly at the expense of the big labor bosses who run the state’s progressive political machine have raised the stakes considerably.
Then there’s Kansas, where Republican Gov. Sam Brownback has put the state on the path to abolishing its income tax. It was a bold move, one that required him to recruit candidates to run for the state legislature against members of his own party in order to get the votes to do it.
He won the policy battle and – if he wins re-election – he’s established a model other Republicans can and no doubt will follow going forward.
[SEE: Cartoons on the Democratic Party]
This, of course, is the most dangerous development of all. The modern Democratic coalition is based on the idea that the revenue the government collects will be spread around among its constituent political parts. It’s a kind of “share the wealth” program on steroids that allows for everyone to get along because no one walks away from the table without their share of the vigorish, which justifies the amount of money that the unions, the environmental groups, the trial lawyers and the civil rights groups take from their members to get Democrats elected in the first place.
If Brownback triumphs, the pie shrinks – which means there just won’t be as much taxpayer money to divide up in the future. So the Democratic coalition groups have to win and make sure no one ever tries to abolish a tax again, even if they have to stretch the truth to do it.
Interestingly enough, rather than attack Brownback on the spending side – which is how the left went after Ronald Reagan – the left-liberal writers who are carrying water for his political opponents are burning the midnight oil finding ways to show the state’s historic 2012 and 2013 tax cuts (the down payment on the income tax’s abolition) are responsible for a so-called revenue shortfall that will eventually bankrupt the state.
[GALLERY: Cartoons on the Economy]
It’s true that the tax cuts did, in the short run, lead to lower revenues than would have be otherwise realized had the rates remained where they were. But that’s not the whole story – something folks like the New York Times' Paul Krugman (who despite his Nobel prize apparently knows as much about economics as I know about fly-fishing) are either unable or unwilling to explain.
Let’s break down what’s really going on. As this short analysis by Americans for Tax Reform confirms is the case, the Kansas Department of Revenues estimates the budget gap for fiscal year 2014 at $338 million. Part of that comes not because of any economic change but from a statistical revision made by the Kansas Division of the Budget late in the process that mistakenly upped the revenue estimates by $103 million based on what they believed were strong economic indicators. A third of the deficit, therefore, can be attributed to an accounting change, a manipulation of numbers on paper.
Data from the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office suggests as much as $147 million of the remaining gap was created by the decision of those who owed taxes on capital gains to shift those payments into prior fiscal years when the rate was lower. In a very real sense, President Barack Obama’s insistence that many of the Bush tax cuts be allowed to expire (including the lower rate on some capital gains) is more responsible for the current Kansas deficit than anything Brownback did – but it requires a greater familiarity with economics than most political reporters have to understand, let alone explain that. Another $10 million can be attributed to a decrease in excise tax receipts. People simply don’t buy as much in a bad economy as they do in a good one, meaning sales tax revenue declines.
[SEE: Cartoons on President Obama]
Brownback’s tax strategy for Kansas embraces the thrice-proven idea (under Coolidge, under JFK and under Reagan) that lower rates are an incentive for people to be more productive, to work harder because they get to keep more of what they earn. This leads to economic growth, creates new jobs, produces an environment in which new businesses start up and existing businesses expand and everyone – those at the top end of the income scales as well as those on the bottom – do better, meaning the gap between rich and poor actually narrows. It’s good public policy that is good for most everyone who does not depend on their ability to derive rents from the government for their economic well-being.
At best, the Brownback tax cuts account for less than $100 million of the actual gap between revenues and expense – which is really a drop in the bucket, especially when the state’s economy starts to pick up thanks to the improvements in the business climate his policies have created. Which means time is short – for the Democrats – to turn things around.
They may have the opportunity to do it with Kansas House Minority Leader Paul Davis (who has been running even or a little ahead in the polls thanks to the support he’s garnered from moderate-to-liberal Republicans who are still a little bruised over the way the governor has treated them). Davis has been running as a moderate who is no rush to defend Obama policies but may see his advantage slip away unless he comes up with a convincing explanation for what he was doing in the backroom of that strip club when it was raided by police back in 1998. He has yet to do so, and the scandal has helped deflect attention away from the so-called Kansas budget woes that have thus far dominated the race.
Nevertheless, if the Democrats can beat Brownback, and tie his defeat to tax cuts, they believe they can make Brownback the “poster child” for what not to do and force the GOP to come up with a whole new game plan going into 2016.

