http://www.zdnet.com/article/nice-people-broken-systems-how-i-bought-some-equipment-and-everything-went-wrong/#ftag=RSSbaffb68
Nice people, broken systems: How I bought some equipment and everything went wrong
I get pleasure from helping people when I am in a position to do so. I’m a customer advocate when it comes to CRM-related stuff. So you would think that I love hearing the catchphrase “It’s all about the people” or other permutations that say it’s really the people that make all the difference.
Well, I don’t. I don’t because it’s not true, especially when you’re dealing with businesses. There's a lot more involved than just friendly faces, pleasant demeanors and kind voices.
Think I’m wrong? Let me tell you the story of Icon Health and Fitness, a company I never will buy from again even though all the people along the chain are very nice. This company is the slide deck case study of how not to do something.
The other day, I ordered a new treadmill, a Nordic Track Elite Pro 9700. It can’t be bought in stores, so I bought it through what I presumed was a reliable distributor, Icon Health and Fitness. I also paid an additional $299 for not just delivery, but assembly of the new unit and removal of an older unit in the house, since it was beyond my skills, experience and strength to do this myself.
Because my travel schedule is so ridiculous, I wanted to make sure it would arrive on September 9 at the latest, before I left for a long round of travel. I was assured by a very nice, intelligent sales rep that it would be, though it was at the edge of the window of that likelihood. He told me that the unit would be shipped the next day.
The same day, I was sent a link to track the order’s progress with my emailed receipt for this rather pricey machine. Starting the next day, since I thought that’s when it would be shipped, I began clicking the order-tracking link. I got an order parts list but nothing else. Click.click.click every day for several days. Nothing. Nada. Nunca. No change. Just a parts listing. Nothing that indicated a thing when it came to what was happening with the order.
First problem: No order tracking?
This was not order tracking, this was an order list. Period. Misrepresentation? Broken system? Either possible, even both possible, but the net result, regardless, was that I had no idea day to day what was happening with my order when using their “order tracking” system. Though I did repeatedly get reminded of what parts my order had. PROBLEM # 1
Finally after a week of this, I called on September 2, the day after Labor Day and was told by another very nice rep that it had just shipped that day.
Yay?
Nope. I found out that while it shipped today, it would take two weeks to deliver it. Unacceptable. Apparently the reason it had just shipped was that it had been on back order. Not only hadn’t the so-called “order tracking” system indicated this, but I had gotten no information via any channel whatever that there was a problem with my order. If I had known that, I would have been able to operate very differently. PROBLEM #2
Needless to say I was not happy with this since the delivery date would coincide with me and my wife being away in Newfoundland for my mother in law’s ninety-first birthday so no one at all would be at home. A third rep, again very nice, who was appalled at the situation said, “Oh, they will call a day in advance to set things up” clearly missing the point that no one would be home to take the call. Her response was “Oh, that would be a problem.” But despite this rather obvious conclusion, to her credit, she was genuinely perturbed at the situation and trying to figure it out.
I asked her if it would be possible to expedite shipment and her answer, was, no, once it was shipped they had no provisions to deal with it. It was sent to a division of UPS that dealt with white glove delivery services, in this case, NVC Logistics, and they couldn’t change anything. PROBLEM #3
She and another very nice rep tried to do something over the ensuing days, but the ultimate response was “There is nothing we can do. We have no procedure that allows us to do anything.” PROBLEM #4
In the interim, I got the UPS shipping notice that said the expected delivery date to the white glove service was September 12. I called UPS and spoke with a wonderful guy (Robert) who explained why it took so long to get to where it was going — UPS Ground etc. I asked him if the white glove service could deliver within 24 hours of the device’s delivery. His answer was they were hamstrung by Icon and couldn’t do anything that Icon didn’t tell them to do. PROBLEM #5. But he gave me the info for the white glove guys, NVC Logistics, and I called them.
“I can’t make this happen on Saturday. The ticket calls for full assembly and I have no techs available to handle a full delivery and assembly in that zip code this Saturday. If customer is willing to accept a threshold or room of choice drop only, then I can make it happen.”
I spoke with their representative and again, a great guy, highly service-oriented himself but he said they (NVC) didn’t like to schedule a delivery until they received the unit, even though they had a UPS expected delivery date. PROBLEM #6, though understandable.
He told me that he’d track things over the next few days. He also told me that the only days that they deliver in my area are Tuesdays through Saturday so they couldn’t deliver on September 14, a Sunday or September 15, a Monday, even though those happened to be THE two days that I would actually be home. No exception handling. PROBLEM #7.
Over the next few days he tracked the order and communicated with me when he had something and he told me that it seemed it would arrive on September 12 a Friday. I asked him if he could then deliver it on the thirteenth. Even though I wouldn’t be home until the afternoon, my wife would be there.
His agent’s answer was “I can’t make this happen on Saturday. The ticket calls for full assembly and I have no techs available to handle a full delivery and assembly in that zip code this Saturday. If customer is willing to accept a threshold or room of choice drop only, then I can make it happen.” Meaning, if I’m willing to accept a considerably lower level of service I could have it on Saturday. Needless to say, since I paid $299 to get the thing assembled and another removed because I can’t do it, that was completely unacceptable.
So, at this point, the only delivery date I could get it on that I would be home for is September 26, a full 17 days after I was assured I would get it. And that’s where it stands.
But there is one more part to this.
Finally back from London, I picked up a message on my business phone from some agent of NVC Logistics that was time stamped September 11 (when I was in London) that said, we want to schedule your delivery – meaning it was in the hands of the delivery service on September 11 and could have been scheduled with my wife being there on the September 12. That would have been my bad, but I already had been told it was arriving the twelfth and the rest you know. The message was lost in the interim since I didn’t pick it up until I arrived back from London. Apparently, there were crossed signals involved, which damaged any chance I had of getting this in even a reasonably timely way. PROBLEM #8
But it continues: "Operator is unavailable, exiting the system, goodbye"
