http://www.zdnet.com/article/samsung-galaxy-s6s6-edge-removing-the-non-removable-battery/#ftag=RSSbaffb68
Samsung Galaxy S6/S6 Edge: Removing the non-removable battery

| Image 1 of 7

Samsung has finally unveiled its long-awaited and much-rumored flagship smartphone. Well, two smartphones to be accurate. Joining the standard Galaxy S6 is the Galaxy S6 Edge that features a dual-curve display.
First, let's take a look at the basics:
But these are just the bare specs, let's take a deeper look at some of the changes.
Availability: April 10.
See also:

Got stuff to do, you're in a hurry and your smartphone is almost flat? The Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge features a fast charge function that gives you 4 hours of usage from a 10-minute charge.
The Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge also feature wireless charging, supporting WPC and PMA standards, as well as offering support for Qi-enabled chargers.
One downside is that you'll have to purchase the wireless charging pad separately, which is a bit of a rub.

As well has having a larger f1.9 aperture front and rear camera – which should dramatically help low-light performance – Samsung has worked on making the camera faster to access. Samsung claims that you can launch the camera in 0.7 seconds no matter whether you are using the smartphone or it is locked.

Both the Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge are equipped with a 5.1-inch 2,560×1,440 (QHD resolution) Super AMOLED display with a pixel density of 577 ppi.

With the Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge Samsung has moved away from plastic to adopt a seamless, full metal and glass construction. The glass comes in the form of the highly durable Gorilla Glass 4, and the glass has been treated with a special reflective material on the inside to give it a highly jeweled finish.

The Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge will be offered in White Pearl, Black Sapphire, and Gold Platinum options, along with a special Blue Topaz for the Galaxy S6, and Green Emerald for the Galaxy S6 Edge.

The upsides:
The downsides:
When it was revealed that Samsung was doing away with the removable battery on its flagship Galaxy S line, some fans were disappointed. However, it turns out Samsung's new Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge do have removable batteries after all... well sort of.
The battery is actually removable, as long as you're happy to deal with adhesive, a handful of tiny screws, removing the circuit board, and voiding the warranty.
The battery removal process, which is detailed in the user manual, was spotted by an eagle-eyed XDA forum member.
The procedure is described as being "only for your service provider or an authorized service agent" and makes it crystal clear that if you break anything while carrying out the process yourself, you're on your own.
If past experience is anything to go by, removing that back cover is going to involve a heat gun (or a blow dryer), a suction cup, and guitar picks.
If you managed to get the back cover off without mangling it, then there are small screws for you to chew up while trying to remove them, circuit boards to fry, and ribbon cable connectors to break.
If you're used to taking handsets apart, this is a pretty straightforward operating. If you're not, then the manual gives you just enough information to be dangerous.


See also:
