http://www.zdnet.com/article/vebbler-wants-to-be-a-personal-network-not-a-social-network/#ftag=RSSbaffb68
Vebbler wants to be a personal network, not a social network
Vebbler is a new personal network that allows people to have more meaningful conversations with different relationships in their lives without one aspect of their life spilling into another. Founded by a 23-year-old Sahil Bhagat, the service has raked in over 10,000 users in few weeks since it was launched in beta.
According to Sahil, Facebook and other platforms are designed on the "social networking" model, an open platform to connect with a large group of people and acquaintances. An average person has between 1,000 and 1,500 friends, of which only 200 or so may be real and intimate connections. Vebbler believes that the quality of relationships is more important than the quantity of relationships. The service therefore allows a maximum of 500 connections, although a user can follow as many people as he finds interesting.
"Building relationships is not a number game. We strongly believe that as an individual starts adding more and more people, he or she will become more cautious about the type of content they share, and will express themselves less freely. Simply put, imagine a person's comfort level of sharing when he is talking to a few close friends, and now put that same person in front of a large audience to speak," Sahil explainsed.
A core element of Vebbler's user experience is the "Crowd Layering Model". When you connect with people, you cannot just "Add a Friend". You have to add a person into a specific layer, or "Club", whether it be friends, a workmate or even a family member.
This layering in relationships is what makes Vebbler stand out against the obvious comparison benchmark--Facebook--and puts weight behind the service's positioning as a "personal network".
While Facebook allows creating lists to filter information that one sees and also to manage privacy, it's not built into the core framework in a way that Vebbler claims to do. It's early days, and a long way ahead, but this Indian-origin social personal network might be interesting to watch out.
