Australian Open 2015: Victoria Azarenka cuts no slack for Caroline Wozniacki in women's singles in Melbourne
By Simon Briggs, Tennis Correspondent, in Melbourne
6:23PM GMT 22 Jan 2015
Comments
Having already exploded the myth that women’s tennis is a hostile environment by becoming "besties" with Serena Williams, Caroline Wozniacki also bonded with Victoria Azarenka last year after both women went through high-profile break-ups with celebrity partners.
Yet Wozniacki must have found herself cursing her new friend on Thursday after Azarenka bundled her out of the Australian Open in straight sets.
It might seem unfair that Azarenka came in without a seeding, given that she won this event in both 2012 and 2013, but then she missed large parts of last season with a foot injury.
"I love this tournament and I’m so sad to be out already," said Wozniacki, who had no answer to Azarenka’s clean hitting in a 6-4, 6-2 defeat.
"Obviously it was a tough draw for both of us. Her level was high; I think she’s back at the level that she left when she stopped playing."
Watch: Moment Federer crashes out
Bouchard twirl request was sheer bad manners
At last, someone mentions the P word
Navratilova backs Watson's period pains complaint
Earlier, the two world No 1s, Novak Djokovic and Serena Williams, had both taken their turn on Rod Laver Arena and won in straight sets. This means that most of the main contenders have survived into the third round, even if some took the dual carriageway and others – think Rafael Nadal and Maria Sharapova – followed the scenic route.
The Williams match was the more interesting of the two. She was up against a quality ball-striker in Vera Zvonareva, whom she beat in the 2010 Wimbledon final, and whose ranking has only sunk to No 203 because of the time she lost to a long-term shoulder injury. So for Williams, who admitted afterwards that she usually feels "sluggish" at the start of the grand slams, Zvonareva had the look of a potentially threatening draw.
The first eight games only strengthened this impression, as Williams started out moving without much speed or enthusiasm. She is always glacially slow in the way she walks between points, but she scarcely seemed to be any more sprightly once the rallies had started. Soon enough, Williams found herself two set points down at 3-5 on what, at around 35 degrees, had been the hottest day of the tournament so far.
That proved to be as bad as it got for Williams. At this moment of crisis, the world No 1 responded with a couple of booming winners and then reeled off the next 10 games without interruption as Zvonareva’s challenge withered.
"Things really clicked," said Williams after concluding her 7-5, 6-0 victory in ominously fine fettle. "I had no other option but for things to click."
Djokovic also put together a long unbroken run of games, reeling off the first nine before his opponent Andrey Kuznetsov could even get off the board. He relaxed his stranglehold on the match a little in the third set, but still completed a 6-0, 6-1, 6-4 victory without alarms.
Finally, Lleyton Hewitt could not continue the recent good-news stories for the Australian contingent as he squandered a two-set lead against another veteran in Benjamin Becker. Many believe that this could have been the last match of Hewitt’s 17-year professional career, which included the 2002 Wimbledon title, as he has not put his name down on any entry lists in February. But the man himself refused to get drawn into any debate over a possible retirement, telling reporters that "I’ll sit back and assess everything after this tournament."

