http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/571023/s/42730d10/sc/7/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ctennis0Cwtatour0C113537480CHeather0EWatson0Einsists0Egiving0Eup0Erich0Edesserts0Ehas0Ebeen0Ekey0Eto0Eflying0Estart0Eto0Ethe0Eyear0Bhtml/story01.htm
Heather Watson insists giving up rich desserts has been key to flying start to the year
By Simon Briggs, Melbourne
11:00PM GMT 18 Jan 2015
Comments
Heather Watson, the new champion of Hobart, admitted on Sunday that her flying start to the year owed much to her discipline in giving up chocolates and artery-furring desserts.
Watson defeated Madison Brengle, of the United States, in Tasmania on Saturday to secure her second WTA title and inch past her previous highest ranking.
The Briton’s new position of No 38 is one better than she managed in February 2013, just before a bout of glandular fever knocked her career off course and sent her plunging outside the top 150.
Now she is back on track and following a virtuous dietary regime that involves cutting back on sinful snacks. “Last week I didn’t have any desserts and it paid off,” Watson said. “When I am back in Florida, I don’t know if you know a restaurant called Chili’s. They have this dessert called chocolate molten cake, it is so good. It’s like a hot sponge with hot chocolate sauce in the middle, ice cream on top and then chocolate drizzle.
“It’s supposed to be shared but I don’t share. The last time I had one of those was in the off-season. And actually, I got given lots of chocolates at the Hopman Cup [the exhibition tournament in Perth earlier this month] and you know what I did? I threw them away.”
Bedene sets sights on passport to Davis Cup
Watson clinches second WTA tour title victory
Order of play, day five
At last, someone mentions the P word
Watson has drawn the awkward Bulgarian player Tsvetana Pironkova in her first-round match at the Australian Open on Tuesday. Despite a moderate world ranking of No 52, Pironkova usually rises to the occasion at grand-slam events. In 2010, she reached the semi-finals of Wimbledon, using her laser-like backhand to fire down second seed Venus Williams on the way.
“I have played her a few times,” Watson, who won their most recent meeting at Eastbourne last year, said. “She likes playing in Australia, she did well in Sydney last week and she’s not an easy opponent. She knows how to win matches against good players but at least I know what my tactics are.”
Another Briton who will be in action on Tuesday is James Ward, who needs one more victory to launch himself inside the world’s top 100 for the first time.
Ward has an even more challenging draw, having been paired with the 31st seed Fernando Verdasco. And, like Watson, he plans to put tennis ahead of his private passions – which in his case mainly centre around Arsenal football club.
“I was talking to Andy [Murray, a fellow supporter] about it,” Ward said, when asked whether he would be following Arsenal’s trip to Manchester City on the TV on Sunday.
“He’s ­playing on Monday so he probably won’t and I’m not sure. Trouble is that it’s three in the morning here, so it wrecks your sleep and puts you off the next day.
“I might need to bite the bullet on this one. I’ve stayed up a few times to watch them over the years and it’s probably cost me a few pounds. Then they go and lose and you wonder why you’ve done it.”
