Nine reasons why the Australian Open is better than Wimbledon - or any other grand slam
By Telegraph Sport
11:42AM GMT 18 Jan 2015
Comments
1. It's the friendly slam
Just ask Roger Federer. “It's laid-back,” he said of the Australian Open on Saturday. “The city is smaller, compared to the other three, and easy to get around. Everything's pretty convenient here. It's really well-organised. Not saying that the other ones are not, but this one seems just like it's very nice and relaxed, super helpful.”
Thanasi Kokkinakis and Maria Sharapova pose with the ball boys EPA
2. The front-page domination
Every January, Melbourne Park becomes Australia’s centre of gravity. Over the past week, just about every newspaper has led with a daily photograph of Federer, Maria Sharapova or suchlike, while TV news reporters have swarmed around the grounds like midges. Bear in mind: the tournament hasn’t even started yet. Australia is the smallest of the four slam countries by far, as well the most sport-obsessed, which makes the intensity of its tennis fixation unique.
Watson insists dessert is off the menu
Bedene sets sights on passport to Davis Cup
Del Potro forced to pull out of Australian Open
Order of play, day five
3. Weather resistance.
The completion of the new roof on Margaret Court Arena means that this is the world’s only outdoor tournament to possess retractable lids for its three main courts. Given that last year’s fortnight was badly affected by 40-plus temperatures, the roofs could be just as useful to protect the players from searing heat as from rain. Either way, the show will go on, and every singles match could potentially be played indoors if required.
Getty Images
4. Vibrant crowds.
According to the former Australian Open runner-up Ana Ivanovic, “Here I really feel people get excited about tennis. They love to cheer. They get loud. Since I don't have a tournament at home [in Serbia], this is like second home for me.” The event is always livened up by numerous cheer squads, some supporting Australians like Nick Kyrgios and Lleyton Hewitt, while others show a welcome lack of partisanship by barracking for Andy Murray or Eugenie Bouchard. The whole “Barmy Army at the tennis” vibe is entirely in tune with Melbourne’s fun-loving mood.
5. Calling a spade a bloody shovel.
Australians are not given to mincing their words. Whether it was 2012’s junior boys’ winner Luke Saville telling a live TV interview that winning felt a “s---load” better than losing, or 2013 master of ceremonies Sandy Gordon introducing runner-up Li Na with the words “She’s battered, she’s bruised and she’s quite possibly buggered”, you never know what they’re going to say next. The results are often politically incorrect but all the more entertaining for it. Last year, tournament doctor Tim Wood insisted that players shouldn’t complain about 40-plus temperatures because “We evolved on the high plains of Africa chasing antelope for eight hours under these conditions.”
6. The garden square
It has occasionally been ransacked by hordes of skirmishing Serbs and Croats, who turn the plastic chairs into missiles in their excitement, but for most of the time the leafy central plaza is a mellow spot for picnicking and chatting: Henman Hill with better weather.
7. Fresh start (players).
Given the Australian Open’s eccentric position, a mere three weeks into the new season, participants shouldn’t be affected by fatigue. Not even after the slew of off-season exhibition tournaments that this winter included the International Premier Tennis League. Tennis has become so attritional that, later in the year, many matches are decided by energy levels as much as technique. But here, most of the leading players are coming off month-long training blocks that have sharpened their skills and left them in optimum physical shape.
Pic: Getty Images
8. Fresh start (fans).
After two months without a major tournament, the appetite for another wave of fuzzy ball-wrangling is always strong among the world’s sports fans. And the ongoing debate about the balance of power – who’s hot, who’s not – also gains an extra frisson from the sense of a new chapter opening. Because of its early slot, the Australian Open does more than any other slam to shape the narrative of the season. Novak Djokovic has used it as his springboard for the last few years, while Stan Wawrinka won his maiden slam here in 2014, then went on to add a maiden Masters 1000 title and the Davis Cup as well.
Victorious: Stan Wawrinka won last year's Australian Open Getty Images
9. The address
Melbourne Park is situated on Batman Avenue. Even the French Open, which is held on Avenue Gordon Bennett, can’t compete with that.

