After the Qatar World Cup, will English football become a summer game?
By Jim White
6:00AM GMT 25 Feb 2015
Comments
From the moment Sepp Blatter opened his little envelope to reveal that Qatar would host the 2022 World Cup, there was one certain outcome: chaos would ensue. Convention would inevitably be torn to shreds, tradition ripped up, common sense dispensed with. And that is without even mentioning that the Fifa president’s announcement would effectively serve as a death sentence for scores of migrant workers, condemned in the construction of white elephant stadia across the desert kingdom in conditions that redefine the word hostile.
But yesterday the full scale of the chaos became clear. Fifa’s internal scrutiny committee has come to the decision that the Qatar World Cup will be scheduled in November and December 2022, with the final to be played the day before Christmas Eve. Short of deciding to hold the Winter Olympics in June, thus transforming the ski jump into a competitive splashdown, it is hard to think of a move more disruptive to the long-established rhythms not just of football but of sport as a whole. As custodians of their game, Fifa make those who seek to drill for oil in the Arctic Circle look like benevolent conservationists. This is nothing short of cultural vandalism.

Sepp Blatter reveals the controversial winner of the 2022 World Cup bid... (Photo: Getty)
Not that they care. It seems futile pointing this out, but the fact is that the criteria under which the nations bid to host the competition were precise and clear. The words “the World Cup will take place in June and July 2022” were printed across the first page of the terms and conditions. There was a reason for that stricture: it has to do so in order to fit into the football calendar, a highly calibrated mechanism that has been arrived at by years of trial, error and negotiation, a schedule that makes the average school timetable look straightforward. That leaves the rest of the year available for domestic competition, for local league and cup, for club games played for community enjoyment across the globe. There is even a month or two’s break programmed in, which gives other sports a moment to step out of football’s all‑enveloping shadow and breathe.
A Christmas World Cup? Reaction and news
Fifa recommends winter World Cup for Qatar
Top clubs demand compensation for World Cup move
Qatar 2022 - the nightmare before Christmas
When the technical report on the various bid documents was put together by Fifa’s internal bureaucracy, it was made clear that playing outdoor sport in a country where summer temperatures top 50 degrees was maybe not the brightest of ideas. Frankly, lives would be endangered. Yet, for reasons entirely to do with spreading the world game into new territories and absolutely nothing to do with buffing up their personal current accounts, members of Fifa’s selection committee decided that Qatar would be the perfect place. Surprised when it was pointed out that maybe a host nation where international footballers were in danger of being barbecued the moment they stepped on to the pitch was not the best idea they had ever had, instead of gifting it to a more appropriate territory, Fifa decided the best course of action was to change the dates.
Already Richard Scudamore, the chief executive of the Premier League, has expressed his displeasure. Those in charge of the German, Italian and Spanish leagues are no less unhappy. And no wonder. November and December is the time of year Scudamore’s member clubs are at full throttle in their own highly lucrative competition. Instead of being played in June in Brazil, had the 2014 World Cup taken place at that time, 10 rounds of Premier League matches would have had to be postponed. That’s 100 matches. It will be no minor rearrangement involved to accommodate Fifa’s big idea.
Scudamore has just signed the most lucrative broadcasting deal in British sporting history. It is a deal predicated on matches being available when the broadcasters want them.
Sky did not pay northwards of £5 billion for the rights to show games in order to have nothing to offer subscribers for two whole months. Which, with the World Cup available solely on terrestrial television, is what will happen in 2022. They will be rapidly seeking some sort of recompense.
So what will Scudamore do? In order to accommodate Fifa and allow those players who ply their trade in English football to compete in the World Cup, he cannot simply erase 100 games – each by then worth over £10 million when televised – from his offering. It doesn’t take recourse to a calculator to work out that would be more than £100 million wiped from his bottom line.

The Premier League, like all the other domestic competitions across Europe, like the lower divisions in England which have to harmonise their schedule, will be obliged to take a three-month break (two months for the tournament plus one for players to prepare with their international squads) and extend the season beyond its usual May conclusion into June, July and August. When it will run into the start of the next season. In short, it will take two, three perhaps even four years to return to the normal rhythm.
Except, of course, English football might discover it rather likes the summer. Fans might come to appreciate watching games in shirt sleeves rather than thermals. Glyndeborne-style picnicking could bloom outside Burnley’s Turf Moor stadium. If nothing else it would spare Radio Five listeners being obliged to hear to Alan Green spending half of his commentary complaining about the freezing wind blowing across the stands in Stoke.
In truth, there is no reason why football is a winter game in this country beyond historical convention. Many a football club – Aston Villa for instance – began life when members of a cricket team decided they needed something to do in the cooler months. For generations we have stuck to the assumption that it is a game played on mud rather than turf. But there is no meteorological objection to it being played in the summer. Warmer temperatures would mean warmer muscles and possibly better performance. Besides, no one is going to spontaneously combust on the West Bromwich pitch in July. This isn’t Qatar, after all.
And it is hard to argue that, if the 2022 switch was found actually to have worked, the football authorities would not cheerfully change the game to the summer. Tradition and convention were long ago eroded by the needs of television paymasters. This season, the FA Cup third round, by long standing an event which took place on the first Saturday afternoon of the new year, was extended from Friday night to Tuesday evening entirely to please the broadcasting schedules of those who hold the purse strings. If Blatter can juggle his arrangements with so little consideration of the consequences solely to suit his own purposes, why not the rest of the football world?

Whitewash: Wolves and Fulham battle through the snow at Molineux Photo: ACTION IMAGES
But imagine for a moment the change that would bring to our sporting landscape. Obliged suddenly to compete with football for attention and cash, sports which require fine weather like cricket, tennis, athletics and golf would wither and pine. Rugby League, which switched to the summer in an attempt to escape the pervasive grip of football, would have to switch back. Rugby Union would become our principle winter pursuit. Well, that and the World Cup, held every fourth November and December.
It may seem an absurd suggestion. Yet this week, football’s highest authority has proved that nothing is sacrosanct in the game they administer, nothing is without a price. Of this we can be certain: if those in charge of English football discover that, after reluctantly moving to suit Mr Blatter, they can make more money out of playing in the summer, if they can successfully deliver the audiences to their television bosses, they will play in the summer. Because as Fifa so amply demonstrated, that is how modern football works.

