http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568832/s/3fd9b5cd/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ctennis0Cwilliamssisters0C1118910A90CSerena0EWilliams0Ecrushes0ESimona0EHalep0Eto0Ewin0Ethe0EWTA0EFinals0Etitle0Efor0Efifth0Etime0Bhtml/story01.htm
Serena Williams crushes Simona Halep to win the WTA Finals title for fifth time
By Julian Linden, Singapore
9:58PM GMT 26 Oct 2014
Comments
Serena Williams beat Simona Halep 6-3, 6-0 to win the WTA Finals championship, proving once again why the American remained the most formidable force in women’s tennis.
Williams avenged her “embarrassing” defeated by the Romanian in the group stage of the season-ending tournament with a ruthless display. Halep shocked Williams 6-0, 6-2 earlier in the competition but was unable to repeat that performance as the American reminded everyone why she was the No 1 player in the world.
“I made so many errors in our last game. I knew for a fact I couldn’t make that many errors,” Williams said. “I had to play more Serena-style tennis and just do what I do best: enforce myself. That’s what I was trying to do.”
For Williams, it was her third successive win in the WTA Finals, second only in importance to the four grand slams, and her fifth overall, tied for second with Steffi Graf. Only Martina Navratilova, with eight titles, has won more, but with Williams showing no signs of slowing down at the age of 33, it is not inconceivable the American could overhaul her.
The odds were stacked against Williams winning in Singapore after she pulled out of two events in China because of a knee injury then lost to Halep in the group stages. But, as she has shown time and time again throughout her illustrious career, Williams has a knack for raising her game when it matters, as Halep learnt the hard way at Singapore’s National Indoor Stadium.
Calling the Williams sisters 'scary' isn't just sexist
Serena Williams suffers heaviest loss since 1998
Serena: Williams brothers jibe 'sexist, racist bullying'
Navratilova hits out at ITF for 'silence' over Williams
“It was an amazing week for me so I cannot be sad that I lost,” Halep said. “Congratulations to Serena, you are the best. I expected a tough match. I knew that she will play better. And yeah, it happened,” added Halep, who ends the year ranked third in the world.
Just as she did in their previous encounter, Halep made a confident start, holding her first service game to love and putting Williams under early pressure. She broke Williams’s second service game to lead 2-1 but failed to consolidate her early advantage as the American responded by taking her game up a notch.
Williams thumped two forehands past Halep to set up her first break point then levelled the scores at 2-2 when the Romanian dumped a forehand into the net.
Staring down Halep with each point she won, a fired-up Williams quickly began to assert her authority, and broke her opponent again to lead 4-2 when Halep hit a backhand long.
A lapse in concentration cost Williams the next game as successive double-faults allowed Halep to break back but those mistakes only spurred her on and she proceeded to reel off the final eight games in a row. She blasted successive aces, the first at 100mph then the next at 120mph, to clinch the opening set then showed no mercy in the second, outmuscling her opponent with her serves, ground strokes and overhead smashes.
Halep won only seven points in the second set, that lasted 25 minutes, before Williams sealed her victory with her 26th winner and raised her arms in triumph as she captured her 64th career title and just over $2 million (£1.24 million) in prize money.
“I didn’t expect to end the year on this note,” said Williams, who won her 18th grand slam singles title at the US Open last month but then injured a knee. “It makes everything much more sweeter and satisfying, especially for me. It wasn’t my best year, but I’m just happy to have won one more title this year. It was also good for me to lose that match. Because now I know what to expect next year. I really know and I’m ready for that next year.”
