Zoe Smith wins weightlifting gold for England at the 2014 Commonwealth Games
By Ben Bloom
5:39PM BST 26 Jul 2014
Comments
With a smile as wide as the River Clyde, a punch in the air and a perfectly executed backflip, Zoe Smith finally let herself relax.
The steely gaze and utter focus that had been etched on her face for the past 90 minutes or so was replaced by unadulterated joy. A first senior title was hers.
A bronze medallist at the Delhi Commonwealth Games at the age of 16, there has been a weight on Smith’s shoulders for the past four years even when she was not in gym. The more kilograms she lifted, the greater the expectation became and a British record at London 2012 only fuelled the flames. There was no other option: Smith had to deliver in Glasgow.
“A part of me is glad that it’s all done and dusted now,” she said after shedding a few tears collecting her gold medal on the podium. “This has been a long time coming. I’ve had to have the same conversation a thousand times: ‘It’s the Commonwealth Games soon, are you nervous, are you going for gold?’ I was always going for gold but whether I would get it or not was another thing entirely. Now I’m just glad it’s hanging round my neck and I can go back to all those people were asking and say: ‘Yeah, I got it’.”
It is easy to forget that Smith is still only 20 years old. Originally from London but now living in Bath, she has had more than her fair share of highs and lows in her career. A matter of months after that unexpected success in Delhi, she suffered the ignominy of British Weight Lifting cutting her funding for being “overweight”.
Dream team claim triathlon gold
Gault equals Games medal record
England tears after loss by point
Five things that surprised us at opening ceremony
Sri Lankan cyclists caught riding on motorway
Peaty aiming to showcase England's next generation
“I was labelled the fat cow of weightlifting for a while,” she said in the wake of the decision. “It was a bit insulting, because they were all basically sat there calling me fat. I was only 16.”
At an age when her peers were channelling all their energy into passing school exams, Smith was being publicly shamed for her size. Yet instead of sulking or raging at the decision, Smith showed a maturity beyond her years and within a matter of months the funding was restored after a “number of positive changes”.
Fast-forward to the present day and not only is she on the path to achieving the sporting success she so desires, but the eloquent, confident, strong-minded Smith is being hailed as an inspiration to women throughout Britain. “Being called an inspiration is such a wonderful thing for me,” she said.
“I’m a bit of a feminist and I believe in the strength of women so to be an inspiration to other women to lift and be who they want to be is really amazing for me. I’m just glad I can be that person.”
It took almost half an hour of competition for the crowd inside the Clyde Auditorium to get their first glimpse of the English lifter as the lesser lights of the final took their turn on stage. When she finally appeared to raucous cheers around the arena her focus did not waver. As she settled into position her eyes moved from the top left of the auditorium to the top right. Then bottom left to bottom right. But still her gaze did not change. She was looking but not seeing.
Up went the bar with such ease that it may as well not have had any of the 89kg attached to it and Smith was on her way.
At the halfway stage following the snatch section, Smith lay in second place – her best lift of 92kg just one less than Wales’ Michaela Breeze managed.
When it came to the clean and jerk she had no rival. 112kg was dismissed, 115kg put her into the lead and then came the moment she will remember forever. With the crowd roaring her on, she hoisted 118kg above her head to set a Commonwealth Games record of a combined 210kg and seal the gold medal.
Nigeria’s Ndidi Winifred took silver three kilograms further back, while 35-year-old Breeze, who came out of retirement specifically to compete in Glasgow, was elated with a bronze. “This has been one heck of a comeback,” said Breeze, a gold medallist in 2002 and 2006. “I never for one minute thought I’d be back here competing.
“I’m 35 now. Zoe wasn’t even born when I started. But I am going to take a bit of credit here for her gold medal. I like to think that I’ve pushed her and that she’s stepped up as a result of my comeback. I’ve given it my best and gone out on a high.”
A second retirement beckons for Breeze while Smith now has her sights set on a medal at the Rio Olympics in two years’ time.
With the whirlwind of her career showing no signs of slowing, she can be forgiven for struggling to come to terms with it all. “To me I’m just the same 12-year-old girl I was eight years ago who walked into the gym because she wasn’t very good at gymnastics and found that she was quite strong,” she said.
Not only is she a damn sight better than “quite” strong but, judging by the celebratory backflip, she may have underestimated that gymnastic ability as well.

