http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570808/s/3b7a281a/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cgolf0C10A8989140CUS0EOpen0E20A140ELuke0EDonald0Emisses0Ethe0Ecut0Eas0Esearch0Efor0Eelusive0Emajor0Econtinues0Bhtml/story01.htm
US Open 2014: Luke Donald misses the cut as search for elusive major continues
By James Corrigan, Golf Correspondent, in Pinehurst
6:59PM BST 13 Jun 2014
Comments
At last year’s US Open, Luke Donald played with Justin Rose in the final round and, after watching his compatriot make his career breakthrough, vowed to change his swing so he, too, could win a major. On Friday, the Englishman missed his fourth major cut in succession.
Of course, these are still early days in Donald’s overhaul under Chuck Cook, who he began working with last summer, having relied on the eyes of Pat Goss since his college days. But after posting some encouraging results in regular events - including a second at Hilton Head and a third at Wentworth in the last six weeks - his awful form in the big four is baffling.
At least Donald gave himself a chance of making the weekend here, marching through his first 16 holes with two birdies and 14 pars, before bogeying the 17th. But the damage of his opening 77, which featured eight bogeys, was too much from which to recover and his 69 left him stranded on six-over. Leaving himself an insurmountable task on the Thursday has been all too familiar a story for Donald, who, in the past, has admitted that he struggled with anxiety on the opening day.
However, on a course which puts so much emphasis on short-game, the man routinely credited as being the best putter on Tour should not be off the property by lunchtime on the Friday. Indeed, in the build-up, he expressed how comfortable he felt at the remodelled Pinehurst.
“I love the renovation and the fact that the USGA have been brave enough to play a US Open with no rough. It’s a genius move on their part,” Donald said. “Having short-cut grass everywhere gives you so many more options. If you hit it in long rough, you have one option and that’s grab the lob wedge. Here you have so many different options off the tee, around the greens. I love what they’ve done.”
Kaymer leads after first-round 65
US Open leaderboard
McDowell profits from precision
McDowell hails Portrush Open call
Pinehurst goes back to nature
McIlroy hopes Nicklaus advice will pay off
In fairness to Donald, since running Rory McIlroy to a few shots at the BMW PGA Championship three weeks ago, there has been a huge, if positive, distraction off the course. His wife, Diane, gave birth to their third daughter, Georgina, and that week he finished in a tie for 48th at the Memorial. Donald is not the sort to offer up excuses and would point out that it was his decision to keep playing despite the family upheaval.
Inevitably, observers will query the wisdom of his radical swing change.
Donald was world No1 for 56 weeks in 2011-12 and seemed odds-on eventually to win a major. Now the question marks flash wildly above his candidature.
Donald is a determined character and will press on convinced the alterations will bear their rich fruits in the long-run. "A lot of people would have questioned why I changed my swing when I had got to No1 in the world,” Donald said. “I didn’t feel like my record in the majors was good enough. I have high expectations of myself. In majors you can’t rely on your short-game as much.”
