http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570808/s/3b71c29e/sc/4/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cgolf0Cusopen0C10A8965720CUS0EOpen0E20A140EGraeme0EMcDowell0Eprofits0Efrom0Eprecise0Eperformance0Ein0Efirst0Eround0Bhtml/story01.htm
US Open 2014: Graeme McDowell profits from precise performance in first round
By James Corrigan, Golf Correspondent, Pinehurst
9:27PM BST 12 Jun 2014
Comments
Rory McIlroy played all the golf, Graeme McDowell did all the scoring. The latter came into this US Open suggesting Pinehurst would by be a scrambler’s paradise and everything about the rounds of the Northern Ireland pair backed up the theory that cup-finding will be more important than ball-striking.
Not that McIlroy was dismayed with his one-over 71. That left him only three behind his playing partner, who shared the early clubhouse lead alongside the American Kevin Na, with a group on one-under including Henrik Stenson, Matt Kuchar and Jordan Spieth. Yet if McIlroy is to win a third major here perhaps he will have to take a leaf out of McDowell’s tactic book. “This is Graeme’s ideal sort of tournament,” McIlroy said.
Indeed it is. The 2010 champion is in his element when it is all about the grind, although, in truth, the conditions were highly favourable to the early starters. McDowell believes the USGA had watered the course overnight. “We got lucky – we were able to take advantage a little bit and actually think about getting at some of those flags,” McDowell said.
McIlroy thought about it more than his Ryder Cup team-mate and, because of this, they provided a wonderful contrast in approaches. McIlroy could not resist the wide open fairways, made so tempting by the recent redesign that returned Donald Ross’s masterpiece to its original rough-free form.
However, McDowell stuck to his less powerful guns. “Rory played the course aggressively and I played it very conservatively,” McDowell said. “It wasn’t my best ball-striking display, but you don’t have to strike it amazing around here, you just have to position the ball correctly. Generally I kept the ball exactly where I wanted it. And I putted very well which I’ve just got to keep doing this weekend.”
US Open leaderboard
McDowell hails Portrush Open call
Pinehurst goes back to nature
McIlroy hopes Nicklaus advice will pay off
Fitzpatrick hunts big fish
US Open 2014 predictions
After a bogey on the fourth, McDowell hit a three wood from 250 yards to 10 feet on the fifth for an eagle. From there it was all pars, apart from a birdie from three feet on the par-four 14th. There were some fine up-and-downs and some nerveless clutch-putting. That seems the magic formula.
“I came in knowing that there would be some like Rory who were going to drive the ball phenomenally well and go into the greens with shorter irons,” McDowell said. “But I didn’t see that as a massive advantage, because I feel it tempts you into making mistakes, because the greens are so severe that you can’t get close with an eight-iron, never mind six or four-irons. So length’s an advantage, but as long as it’s used correctly. Listen, I’m not criticising how Rory is playing; he played magnificent.”
McIlroy was content enough, but, following three bogeys and two birdies, he did confess that he was frustrated by his inability to grasp a few opportunities, as well as his continued propensity to hand back a few shots. After a two-hour conversation with Jack Nicklaus, he arrived in North Carolina determined to heed his advice.
“When I three-putted the 16th I thought of him, but he told me he always hated three-putting,” McIlroy said. “But I missed one fairway, hit 14 greens and played beautifully from tee to green and am really happy with that. I’m just going to work a little bit on my speed on the greens and if I can get that dialled-in then I’m pretty confident going into the next three days.”
On the same mark is the English amateur, Matt Fitzpatrick. The 19-year-old actually held the lead when moving to two-under after three holes and despite two successive bogeys from the 14th (his fifth), he showed his maturity by picking up birdies on the treacherous 16th and second. At that stage he was putting his playing partners to shame. That they happened to be the defending champion, Justin Rose, and Phil Mickelson only placed his efforts ever further into fantasy land.
Alas, three bogeys on the last five holes meant he finished one behind Mickelson yet one ahead of Rose. He was unfortunate on his penultimate hole when having to call a penalty on himself after inadvertently moving the ball as he went to pitch.
“I rested my club down, and then it moved and touched my club and I looked at my caddie [Lorne] Duncan and I was, like, ‘Whoops’.” Fitzpatrick said. “I suppose I’m pleased and disappointed at the same time. To get under par really was great, but it would have been nice to just steady out the rest of the day.”
Fitzpatrick turns professional immediately after this event, and on this evidence it will not come a moment too soon. By then Mickelson will hope to have become the sixth player to win the career Grand Slam. The left-hander bogeyed two of the last four, but this was anything but disastrous.
For his part, Rose will simply be happy to have played his second nine in two-under after going to the turn four-over. His countryman Ian Poulter shot an encouraging 70, while Lee Westwood faces a fight to make the cut following a 75.
- US Open leaderboard
