US Open 2014: Matt Fitzpatrick ready to join the big time
By James Corrigan, at Pinehurst
10:21PM BST 11 Jun 2014
Comments
Last Wednesday, Matt Fitzpatrick was beaten in his last amateur match on home soil by Martin Haddock, a 48-year-old microbiologist, in a Sheffield club game. On Thursday, in his final tournament as an amateur, the 19-year-old plays in the first round of the US Open with Phil Mickelson and Justin Rose.
From Haddock to the game’s biggest fish... yes, it is fair to say, Fitzpatrick’s life is changing quickly and the pace is set to rise still further. When his week finishes here he becomes a professional, making his debut in the paid ranks in next week’s Irish Open at Fota Island.
“It’s daunting but exciting,” Fitzpatrick said. “But I’m determined to enjoy myself here and leave the amateur world on a high.” That would give Haddock at more bragging rights. A plus-one handicapper, Haddock was given little chance against the Yorkshire lad who last year became the first Englishman to win the US Amateur in 111 years.
But as Ian Garbutt, the former European Tour pro who plays at the same Wheatley Golf Club as Haddock, reported the 2&1 reversal was no humiliation. “It’s hard to beat Martin around Wheatley,” he said.
It might be harder still for Fitzpatrick to outscore Rose, the defending US Open champion, and Mickelson, the reigning Open champion. But he is confident of a good showing here. Fitzpatrick arrived at Pinehurst, on Thursday, the day after playing for Hallamshire Golf Club and fell in love with the No 2 layout immediately. The last time he was here was as a nine-year-old in 2004 on a holiday family. “It’s changed a lot,” he said, with a smirk.
McIlroy hopes Nicklaus advice will pay off
Pinehurst goes back to nature
US Open 2014 predictions
Rose determined to avoid suffering a World Cup ‘own goal’
Campbell a classic victim of his own success
The last few days, Fitzpatrick has played practice rounds with Rory McIlroy and Graeme McDowell and both offered him encouragement that his much lauded short game will be a big advantage at Pinehurst. “Chipping is going to be key all week, because there’s no rough and balls will run off greens and into the flattest spots around the green,” Fitzpatrick said “With the greens so fast, it’s incredibly hard to chip to a foot every time, so you’ve got to be holing six-to-eight foot putts.
“My ambition is to make the cut and from there I’d be disappointed if I didn’t go on to win the silver medal [awarded to top-placed amateur] to go along with the one at last year’s Open. It would be a nice way to end before I have to go off and earn my living.”
Rose played a practice round with Fitzpatrick at Augusta, where he missed the cut by a shot after double-bogeying the first. Rose feels Pinehurst will suit him. “This is the kind of golf course I would say that in a sense he grew up on with ball running,” he said “He’s got a great short game too, so I think he will do well. He’s a really nice guy and I’m looking forward to playing with him.”
Also in the field is Tom Lewis, who at the age of 20 led the Open at Lytham after a first-round 65. It was the lowest score ever shot in the British major by an amateur. Three years on, Lewis plays in his second major and his first as a professional.

