US Open 2014: Pinehurst goes back to nature as Oliver Brown takes on No 2 course that will host Championship
By Oliver Brown, Chief Sports Feature Writer, at Pinehurst
4:51PM BST 11 Jun 2014
Comments
The dawn portrays Pinehurst in its chromatic splendour, the emerald of the forest glistening above the tawny wire-grass and coppery bed of pine needles. Such is the thrum of the cicadas, portending a morning of oppressive Southern heat, it is as if the scene has been conjured from a Harper Lee novel.
No wonder the place was first envisaged as a health retreat, where middle-class Americans could escape the harsher vicissitudes of a New England winter, luxuriating in the restorative qualities of the pine-scented air. James Walker Tufts, Pinehurst's founding philanthropist, even approved signs that declared: 'Consumptives welcome.' Only later did he come to understand that tuberculosis was contagious.
At that point Tufts wisely saw fit to make a subtle change of emphasis, from the palliative care of respiratory illness to golf. The result is an undisputed pearl of the game, an eight-course woodland wonder scrupulously plotted by Donald Ross, the young Scottish professional whom Tufts enlisted in 1900 to re-sculpt a landscape of ravaged timber and who stayed for 48 years. Course No 2, which dons its more sinister US Open regalia this week as a par-70 of almost 7,600 yards, is his masterpiece. And for one morning only, I am about to play it.

Guiding my path is Rob Pilewski, the kindly resident professional who had travelled to Maryland in an effort to qualify for this US Open himself, bringing in his brother to caddy. "Shot 79," he says, with a rueful grin. "No good." But as an instructor in No 2's deceptive vagaries, so beastly that Graeme McDowell predicts a score of five over par could win this week, he is formidably proficient. Even on the 10th, a quite terrifying proposition of 617 yards, he walks off with a five while I am left flailing in areas of scrubland that not even the local racoons have yet discovered.
US Open 2014 predictions
Rose determined to avoid suffering a World Cup ‘own goal’
Campbell a classic victim of his own success
Tragic hero Stewart still casts spell over Pinehurst
McIlroy to play safe at US Open
Only this year, Pinehurst's defences are supposed to have been stripped bare. For those exacting agronomists at the United States Golf Association have, in a quite uncharacteristic act of charity, cut the rough. In contrast to the two previous US Opens on this majestic track in 1999 and 2005, when even a fractionally errant tee-shot would dive down into foot-high asparagus, 40 acres of tangled Bermuda grass have given way to a blotchy hardpan that more authentically evokes the setting here in the Carolina Sandhills.
"Less water, less maintenance," says USGA director Mike Davis, intimating that they have essentially given Pinehurst No 2 back to nature. The result is an arresting gradation of colour, from the luxuriant green of the widened fairways to the rustier tones of the sandy-wire grass planted lovingly over the past decade to restore a semblance of Ross's original vision. "If Ross could come back here, it might look familiar to him," argues Tom Pashley, Pinehurst's vice-president. "People who played it in the Sixties say it's like going back in time. They have gone all misty-eyed as it has stirred the emotion of their youth."

Boy, do they love Donald Ross in these parts. Pashley is so in thrall to the notion of reviving the heritage Ross bequeathed that he once made it his abiding quest to seek out the designer's grave, eventually tracing it to Newton, Massachusetts. "I thought somehow if Ross wasn't properly buried, we'd need to find a way to get him here," Pashley explains. "I really wish he could be. It would further ingrain his legacy."
Not that one needs much reminding, when even the local hostelry, the Pinecrest Inn, has a giant portrait of Ross above its fireplace. It all feels like an aggressive superimposition of a Scottish heritage to which Pinehurst can never convincingly lay claim. For a start, the club's executives ceaselessly invoke its supposed parallels with St Andrews. In the lobby of the on-site Carolina Hotel there is a clock displaying the time in Fife, while every evening, in a desperately ersatz touch, a bagpiper is paid to perform outside the main doors.
Such are the familiar affectations, perhaps, of a young nation. Pinehurst, opened in 1895, strives on every front to confect a magisterial sense of history. "While St Andrews is the Home of Golf, we're keeping its spirit alive," Pashley claims. "We have sand from the Road Hole bunker, and we deposited on the 18th green as a symbol of our kinship. There's even a replica starter's box next to the first tee."

The whole concept is bunkum, of course. Pinehurst No 2 has about as much in common with St Andrews on the spiritual level as the average municipal cabbage patch. About the one similarity that could be established between the two is that you can play golf at both of them. That is not to suggest Pinehurst does not possess a stunning golf course, or that the sandy scrub that now frames its verdant glory is not at least redolent of a links. I just wish, as I reach the turn slightly numbed by No 2's length and the cheek of the 529-yard fourth to call itself a par-four, that it would celebrate its own idiosyncratic charms rather than restlessly counterfeiting those of the Old Course, with which it could never justly be compared.
As I savour the gorgeous natural amphitheatre around the par-three 15th, I realise that Pinehurst's most signal contribution to major championship will be to make the US Open fun again. For years this tournament has been the most dour, attritional test, a competition to crown the player who goes backwards slowest and where the sanctity of par is guarded as ferociously as the Turin Shroud. Instead, with the rough slashed back and the greens at their glassiest, the onus is on the man who can demonstrate the most dazzling creativity. All of which augurs wonderfully for a certain Phil Mickelson, aiming this week to complete his career grand slam. "We had to build a links in the country for Phil to win at last," says director of grounds Bob Farren, smiling at the reference to Mickelson's Open triumph at Muirfield. "Yes, that would be a huge story for us."
Sky Sports' live coverage of the US Open is part of a summer of sport that also includes the USPGA Championship and the 2014 Ryder Cup

