http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569351/s/395ad3fb/sc/39/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Cathletics0C10A7662880CMo0EFarah0Edesperate0Eto0Ewin0Eagain0Eon0Ethe0Etrack0Eafter0ELondon0EMarathon0Edisappointment0Bhtml/story01.htm
Mo Farah 'desperate' to win again – on the track – after London Marathon disappointment
By Simon Hart
7:57PM BST 14 Apr 2014
Comments
Mo Farah is desperate to return to winning ways on the track this summer, says British Athletics performance director Neil Black, and will resume full training in just two weeks following a short break to “recover physically and emotionally” from Sunday’s Virgin Money London Marathon.
Farah was deeply disappointed by his eighth-place finish in 2 hr 8 min 21 sec, which was 68 seconds outside Steve Jones’s 29-year-old British record, and said afterwards that he was determined to run another marathon instead of bowing out on a low.
But Black, who spoke to the athlete on Sunday evening and also had talks with his American coach, Alberto Salazar, said the track was now Farah’s priority this year and played down the chances of a second marathon in the autumn.
“I think that is incredibly unlikely,” Black said. “I think Mo will be looking forward to getting on the track this summer and enjoying racing.
“Mo’s a winner. He wants to win and the fact that he didn’t win and didn’t do as well as he wanted or expected means that he’s desperate to go out and win. But he’s a wise guy and it was fascinating talking to him after the race. He was saying: ‘I just need a break and to let it all wash over me.’
London Marathon runner, 42, dies
Farah better off without marathon
Farah finishes eighth in marathon
London Marathon: as it happened
“But he’s so enthusiastic about racing, competing and doing well this summer. He’s just not being specific about what event at this stage.”
Farah has already committed to run in the Sainsbury’s Glasgow Grand Prix on July 11-12, at a distance yet to be announced.
Only then will he decide whether he has recovered sufficiently to compete at the Commonwealth Games later that month or at the European Championships in Zurich in early August.
Black said no long-term decision would be taken about any future marathon plans – or whether Farah would run another one at all – until his performance in London had been analysed thoroughly.
“Alberto’s a great realist,” said Black. “He knows that Mo is in very, very good shape and feels very confident in the work Mo has done. He probably had a hope he would perhaps be a bit quicker, but he’s very rational and logical and he’ll be asking, ‘What can we learn from this?’ and, ‘Is this simply telling us that on this day in these circumstances, this is what Mo did and this is how he felt?’
“He’s going through the rational thought processes to work out what we can take from it, what we can do differently and how he can apply himself to coaching Mo in the future with reference to the marathon, if and when Mo wants to run another one.”
The issue facing Farah and Salazar is that training for a second marathon next year would risk interfering with the defence of his world 5,000 and 10,000 metres titles in Beijing, while 2016 is Olympic year.
Hugh Brasher, the London Marathon race director, admitted yesterday that the demands of the track calendar meant it was unlikely that Farah would attempt another marathon before the Rio Olympics.
“I would think that it would be post-Rio,” said Brasher. “I know they were looking at whether they could do a 10,000/marathon double at Rio and I think that, on reflection, they will probably feel that the 5,000 and 10,000 is where he would stay. But that is not my decision and that is something they will take time to conclude.
“Of course we’d absolutely love to have him back. The Mo Factor is so special. The crowds at the start and throughout the route with all their Mo masks were amazing and the interest from the media has been huge.”
Kenyan world record-holder Wilson Kipsang, who triumphed in Sunday’s race in a course-record 2-04-29, said Farah needed to make a clear decision about whether he was a marathon or track runner because it was not possible to be both.
“The training for the marathon and the training for a 10k on the track is totally different,” he said. “The rhythm, how you have to run, is totally different. If you try to do both you will be disturbing your body too much.”
