Manchester United v Tottenham: Danny Rose is best English left-back, not Baines or Shaw, says Pochettino
By Matt Law
10:30PM GMT 13 Mar 2015
Comments
Mauricio Pochettino believes Danny Rose has overtaken Luke Shaw as the best English left-back.
The Tottenham Hotspur manager worked with Shaw at Southampton and helped the teenager win a place in England’s World Cup squad and earn a £27 million move to Manchester United.
Shaw, however, has struggled with injuries and has seen his form dip at Old Trafford under Louis van Gaal, who substituted the defender at half-time in United’s FA Cup defeat by Arsenal on Monday night.
Rose has managed to keep summer signing Ben Davies out of the Tottenham team and Pochettino believes his performances have been better than those of Shaw, Everton’s Leighton Baines, Arsenal’s Kieran Gibbs, Southampton’s Ryan Bertrand and West Ham’s Aaron Cresswell.
Louis van Gaal and Mauricio Pochettino go head to head on Sunday (GETTY IMAGES)
England manager Roy Hodgson, who names his squad for the Lithuania and Italy matches next week, plans to be at Old Trafford on Sunday to watch Tottenham against United and see for himself how 24-year-old Rose compares to Shaw.
Despite being called up to the England squad by Hodgson for the Switzerland and Norway games, Rose is considering an offer to play for Jamaica, whom he qualifies for through his grandfather.
Pochettino said: “I have not spoken to him about Jamaica, but so far this season he has been the best English left full-back. His performances have been great. But that is not my decision, it is Roy Hodgson’s.
“It’s our job to compare our players with other players in the same position and we believe that Danny Rose has so far been the best English left-back.
“That’s overall what we believe. We know all the stats from players in the same position. It’s our stats, together with what we see as well.

“I think that Luke Shaw was the best English left-back last season because he was at the World Cup. He was maybe in the top three in the Premier League.”
Asked why he thinks Shaw is no longer the best English left-back since his move to United, Pochettino replied: “It is not for me to analyse Luke Shaw. I can only explain my experience with him. But every player changes every year and now it is not me who is the manager to explain about him or what his reality is now.
“Our experience with Luke Shaw was fantastic last season, but now he’s in another context and at another club. You have to realise that players change every year, just like we change because every year is different, as thing happen in our lives. Managers and players at different clubs, it’s difficult to compare.
“All players need to feel confidence from the staff, the players, the supporters. All need to be consistent in training and games to give their best. It’s not just him, it’s all players.”
Tottenham have moved a step closer to starting work on their new £400 million new stadium after Archway Steel confirmed they will not appeal the High Court’s decision to refuse their legal challenge of the Compulsory Purchase Order.

