Sky senses victory in battle to snatch Open from BBC
By Ben Rumsby
12:36AM GMT 31 Jan 2015
Comments
Sky Sports appears to have won the battle to wrest the broadcast rights to the Open Championship from the BBC.
Golf’s ruling body, the R&A is expected to announce early next week that it has agreed a £10 million-a-year deal with Sky for The Open to run from 2016, which will see one of sport’s most iconic events disappear from free-to-air television after 59 years. The BBC had been paying £7 million a year for the privilege of showing the annual spectacle of Rory McIlroy , Tiger Woods and others competing for the famous Claret Jug.
The Daily Telegraph revealed on Jan 17 that a delegation from the R&A, led by the chief executive Peter Dawson, had travelled to the Sky Sports headquarters for talks with its managing director, Barney Francis. The summit was evidence of the R&A’s willingness to entertain for the first time a pay-TV broadcast partner. The 261-year-old organisation had publicly resisted the overtures of Sky Sports after the championship was removed from the list of events protected for terrestrial broadcast.
But that commitment was jeopardised since it last extended the BBC’s contract, with Dawson tellingly leaving the door open for a pay-TV partner.
That left him facing a dilemma of whether to take a lucrative offer from Sky Sports for full exclusivity or to push for a similar model in place for the Masters since 2011. That sees Sky own live rights for all four days of the tournament, with the BBC able to show the final two rounds and highlights of days one and two.
All change - Troon ready to welcome women
Battle for the Open leaves BBC in the bunker
McIlroy tees up Grand Slam
Australia shatters the pay-TV myth
Dawson had spoken before about how important terrestrial coverage was in encouraging more people to take up golf, which has suffered a huge slump in participation in recent years. But American broadcasters spend vast sums on its other majors – Fox Sports paid more than $1 billion (£661 million) over 12 years for US Open rights in 2013.
The BBC is expected to agree a highlights deal but that will come as scant consolation to many golf followers. The corporation’s priorities have tilted hugely towards football and it has just agreed to pay the Premier league £204 million to keep the highlights package on Match of the Day for three more years.
Veteran BBC commentator Peter Alliss was among the most outspoken critics of the corporation’s plans to ditch the Open when the suggestion was first mooted, saying it should not have spent so much money on moving staff up to a new site in Manchester.
“How many millions [did] that cost, and you wonder about the value in that. This week we’ve got two or three hours of indoor bowls on each day which of course is of great interest to the people who play it but no interest at all to anyone else.”

