Will Greenwood's European Champions Cup preview: Resurrected Wasps will top their group
By Will Greenwood
4:00PM GMT 23 Jan 2015
Comments
Pool 1
Two sides have gone clear. But that is not the news. Munster, for only the second time in their European travels, have failed to get out of the group. Their backline has struggled. Paul O'Connell’s shoulders looked heavy at Saracens and the missing brilliance of Conor Murray meant they were beaten early in the must-win game.
The other team that will not get out of the group is Sale. They have competed brilliantly without picking up a win. And everyone will recognise Manchester as a tough European trip from now. They made the might of Clermont struggle in Salford right up to the 75-minute mark.
Others also found it tough. Munster needed a last-minute drop-goal and Saracens scraped home by four. And so it comes down to the two teams who lost the last two finals. At the home of Clermont, where away wins are rarer than hens teeth, Fritz Lee and Camille Lopez at 8 and 10 have made a huge difference to the side. Still powerful up front, vastly talented out wide, with two men either side of the brilliant scrum-half Morgan Parra, they now have a trio that can take them to European champions.
Saracens wing Chris Ashton (left)
Hartley seeing sports psychologists to curb his temper, reveals Moody
Worst dives in rugby
'Cut out the acting' say rugby players
Can England do a Bath?
Saracens, meanwhile, were absolutely brilliant in beating Munster. The Vunipola brothers found some sensational form, there was a collective will in defence, Owen Farrell looked refreshed. The North Londoners never took a backward step, and you can see they fear no-one.
But for all of Saracens' strong performance, Clermont look more composed than ever before and have a ridiculously talented line-up. Nick Abendanon at full-back gives them real solidity, which they lacked at times in the past. And the French team will have last year's semi-final humiliation headlines replaying in their minds, if not written all over their changing room. Clermont need to win to guarantee themselves a home semi-final. It will be an epic battle, but I am for the French. Even with a loss, Saracens will escape the pool - they will grab a losing bonus point, and Saracens understand Europe.
Pool winners Clermont
Qualifying runners-up Saracens
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pool 2
Castres have been appalling. The Top 14 Champions from a couple of years ago have fallen off the face of the earth. Never great in Europe - less than useless when they are struggling in the Top 14 as well. They singlehandedly kick started Wasps' season. Wasps didn't need asking twice. The full 10 points in the Christmas double-header has put Wasps in control of their own destiny.
Wasps were magnificent last week at Quins - they did not have much ball, were heroic in defence, and produced some brilliant opportunistic seven-pointers. Shaun Edwards often talked of Wasps being the masters of the smash-and-grab and this was as good an example of this style of play as you will see.
For Wasps, a home tie in round six - knowing a win offers you the group - is an unbelievable state of affairs after losing your first two games. No side has ever escaped a group in Europe after losing their first two. Wasps, and Bath in Pool 4, look on the verge of doing just that.
Nathan Hughes (centre) has been a colossus for Wasps
Wasps are a mighty-tight unit with an epicentre that is on firey form - the back row of Ashley Johnson, James Haskell and Nathan Hughes would take some beating and could easily claim to be the best trio in the comp. They have pace, great defence, ball carrying and breakdown work, as well as top handling, sheer grit, bulk, and fleet of foot. It is a cracking mix and fantastic to watch. And with a new stadium - Wasps can't lose, can they?
Leinster, three-time champions, are the opponents. The recent masters of the European clutch away win. But they are not their usual selves. They have been off the pace, their error count a little high, gain line not dominated, and they were missing big runners in the early rounds. They are still the masters of the set-piece play, though, although that might not be enough. I know they can open a can of beans with a jelly baby yet even with players returning, and their mental strength, I just cannot persuade myself that they can nick this. If Wasps can win at Quins with 20 per cent possession for long periods I have to think they can win at home with closer to 50 per cent.
The bonus point will be enough for Leinster to escape the group and you know when they have a full side by April they would fancy themselves against anyone.
Quins will head to the south of France, and I genuinely believe they will get the maximum win, pick up five points and still end up third in the group with 18 points. They will rue the missed chance of burying Leinster in Dublin in round four when they had the group at their mercy.
Pool winners Wasps
Qualifying runners-up Leinster
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pool 3
Ulster will be gutted with their European year, having looked settled for a number of years in the knockout stages.
Scarlets just do not seem to have the bulk and depth of squad to compete over the gruelling six rounds.
Leicester have been too inconsistent at home, and in Europe, and with it find themselves relying on a brilliant set piece - the best line-out in the competition - to give themselves a slimmer than slim chance of escape from the group.
Leicester's lack of consistency has hurt them
Their handling behind the scrum has not been that of a knockout team in Europe. A belter of a match with plenty of history between the two sides awaits the Tigers in Ulster. Ulster have too much pride and enough young tyros to raise the atmosphere in Belfast. However, I can see Tigers grabbing the win (Ulster have been hit hard by injuries) but they may not get the bonus point they desperately need and with it might leave Europe in the group stage.
Toulon are already group winners - their power is well documented, Steffon Armitage's ability (the debate continues), and the embarrassment of backline riches (which saw illness still leave them with a back line of Sanchez at 10, Mermoz at 12, Bastareaud 13, Habana on the wing and Halfpenny at full-back) all make them worthy winners. An away win at Scarlets should see them with a home quarter-final and beware all those who head there in April.
Group winners Toulon
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pool 4
I am pretty certain no team has ever won their first four games and not got out of the group. But Toulouse are in extreme danger. No bonus points in any of their first four wins tells you they were scraping home with the victories and lacking rhythm. But to head into round five, six points clear and to now stand on the brink of falling out of the competition is extraordinary.
Montpellier hold the key. It has been a horror season for Montpellier – they hope a World Cup-winning coach, Jake White, will ride to the rescue and he has already delivered a home win in the league against Toulon. A home win against the esteemed Toulouse in Europe would bag the wily old fox a two-year deal - he knows how huge this game could be for his local approval.
With it, Montpellier, a side that would normally roll over and get its tummy tickled with only two points from their first five games, now become a horror trip for Toulouse. I have Montpellier to win this one - although I am nervously checking Jake White's team selection - and with it see Toulouse go crashing out of Europe. Which opens the door for another English side; Bath.
Bath dished out a thumping to Toulouse recently
This Bath side lost their first two, one an absolute humbling by Glasgow warriors, and now face redemption with their tormentors from round one. The perfect dish, perhaps. Gregor Townsend's Warriors blew it in the middle rounds, and at home to Toulouse they saved their worst performance of the season for the biggest game in their club's history. And now, somehow, they have to go to Bath and repeat their round one heroics.
Bath are in a different space now. A record European defeat inflicted on Toulouse, sensational defence, outstanding set piece at key times and then some of the most fantastic heads up rugby, ball in hand an English side has ever produced on the road.
George Ford, Kyle Eastmond and Jonathan Joseph took Toulouse to the cleaners, the absolute cleaners. This side will not let the Glasgow boys in for another bite at the cherry. If it is dry on Sunday I would be comfortable thinking Bath could grab the five-point, four-try win. A leap to 20 points. Group victory. Inconceivable in October.
Group winners Bath
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pool 5
Pool five is home to the curse of the Italian side that still skews the European road map to the quarter final. Inclusivity is key but my goodness it hands the other members of the group a leg up.
Two teams always qualify from the group occupied by Italian competition. Treviso's presence in Pool 5 - they have not won a game other than against fellow Italian side Zebre all season - means either Northampton Saints or Racing Metro could lose by a hatful in their head-to-head and still have enough points to qualify as a runner-up with the 19 group points they start round six with.
Ospreys have been competitive but their home form has not been strong enough. Bullied physically by Saints and Racing, it sees them with only three match points from the four battles against the top two sides.
And so to the head-to-head in the East Midlands, Saints versus Racing, with the winner guaranteed a home quarter-final. Two similar sides. Massive lads. Huge set piece. They both love winning the gain line, playing round the corner with the power runners. And then comes the tempo. Both side have monsters in midfield, Burrell and George Pisi against any combination of Dumoulin, Roberts, Laulala, Chavancy means seismic collisions. And some very sharp finishers out wide. George North leads the try count in Europe, while Juan Imhoff and Marc Andreu are electric with half a gap. Win the physical battle first then comes the pace.
Northampton Saints have a fearsome pack
Neither side is afraid to play territory when they have to. One accusation you could level against both of them is that if you stop them dead on the gain line, the answers and alternatives don't come cascading to mind. But it is a heck of an ask.
Antonie Classen has given the Paris outfit a real backbone in their pack and Classen v Callum Clark will be a classic on the floor. With this new steel for Racing Metro, Europe doesn't just look like a nice day trip anymore.
These boys are here to stay and mean business - the arrival of Dan Carter suggests they don't just want to conquer their domestic league. But you have to think as a side that have never got out of the group stages, Racing Metro may use the Italian side to help them to achieve this first, but may not yet be ready to storm Franklins Gardens.
Group winners Northampton
Qualifying runners-up Racing Metro

