Davis Cup: Andy Murray beats Donald Young to give Great Britain 1-0 lead over United States
By Simon Briggs, Tennis Correspondent, Glasgow
4:33PM GMT 06 Mar 2015
Comments
Andy Murray experienced a flashback to his gold-medal-winning run at the London Olympics as he came out to a hero’s reception in Glasgow this afternoon and then played some of the best indoor tennis of his career.
Murray handed a lesson to Donald Young in the opening rubber of this Davis Cup encounter, in a match which was rather less competitive than the 6-1, 6-1, 4-6, 6-2 scoreline would suggest.
The British No1 earned a spine-tingling reception when he walked out for the welcome ceremony and the 7,700 fans in the Emirates Arena then performed an ear-splitting rendition of “The Banks of Loch Lomond” as the players warmed up.
Andy Murray in action during his opening win in the Davis Cup World Group tie
After the match, he compared the intensity of the crowd’s support to the feelings he had experienced three years ago at Wimbledon, where he beat Roger Federer in the final to claim the Olympic singles title.
Federer downgrades Davis Cup
Murray v Young: as it happened
Murray has to find reason for his 'meltdown', says Cash
“When I played at the Olympics there was a similar reception there,” Murray said, “and that’s the nice thing about playing in the Davis Cup: having the home ties where you play in front of crowds that are right behind you.
“When you play in an indoor arena everything feels louder and all of the noise stays in. I used that energy and emotion very well at the start of the match. It was maybe nicer to play first, because if I’d gone on and seen the atmosphere, the reception and everything and then had to sit for three hours it would have been tough.”
Drawing inspiration from the crowd, Murray started like a runaway train and dropped only one of the first nine points – that being an ace from the otherwise overwhelmed Young.
Supporters in Glasgow show their support for Andy Murray
This level of domination was maintained through most of the first two sets, as Murray rushed to a 6-1, 6-1 lead in just 47 minutes. It would have been hard to imagine a greater contrast than that between his play here and the error-strewn display he produced against Borna Coric in Dubai last week.
Young, to his credit, managed to pull himself together in the third set and Murray played his worst service game of the match at 4-5 down. This was the only time he had faced a break point all day, and unfortunately an errant forehand handed the set away.
But normal service was quickly resumed as Murray broke in the third game of the next set to retake control, and he cruised to victory in 1hr 58 mins.
Donald Young stretches for a backhand during defeat to Andy Murray
“I played extremely well for the whole match,” said Murray. “I had a slight lull in the third because I couldn’t quite maintain my intensity but I was still very happy overall.
“He didn’t play a good first game but I made one unforced error in the first two sets so I can’t say it was down to his bad play, why I was in that position. I can praise myself today, I made one unforced error and that’s going to get you a 6-1, 6-1 lead in these sorts of matches.”
By conserving energy today, Murray has perhaps given himself a better chance of playing in tomorrow’s doubles rubber against the Bryan brothers, the world’s top-ranked team. But he says it is a difficult decision to weigh up.
“I’d be ready to play if required,” Murray explained, “but playing three days in a row is tough, because these weekends can be challenging mentally and physically. As much as you want to win the doubles, it’s not just about winning that point and then being tired for Sunday. There is emotional stress and players do spek about how they feel fatigued after Davis Cup because it is different.”



