Super League: Wakefield Wildcats 14-44 Huddersfield Giants
Scott Grix's only other try this season came against Widnes Vikings on 6 March
22 March 2015 Last updated at 17:08
Wakefield (8) 14
Tries: Collis, Kirmond, Crowther Goals: Hall
Huddersfield (18) 44
Tries: Grix 3, Ferres, Brough, Cudjoe, Ta'ai Goals: Brough 6, Ellis 2
Scott Grix scored a hat-trick in the opening eight minutes to set up Huddersfield's victory at Wakefield.
Grix's treble, the fastest hat-trick from the start of a Super League match, put the Giants 18 points up before tries from Dean Collis and Danny Kirmond made it 18-8 at half-time.
Jordan Crowther's score narrowed the gap but Giants produced four unanswered tries through Brett Ferres, Danny Brough, Leroy Cudjoe and Ukuma Ta'ai.
It was a third straight win for Giants.
There was an emotional tribute to former Wakefield player Leon Walker, whose death six years ago to the day was marked by a minute's applause.
Giants made an explosive start as their forwards set the platform and Grix's support play brought him three quick tries on the back of some fine Brough skills.
Having been blown away in the opening quarter, Wakefield responded when Collis crossed on the back of a Tim Smith chip tapped down by Richard Owen.
Kirmond then crashed on to an Ali Lauitiiti pass, after the veteran's teasing run across the line, but Craig Hall was unable to add to either score as the Wildcats headed into the break 10 points down.
Crowther's early second-half try on his home debut suggested Wakefield would make inroads into the deficit, but a mixture of errors and devastating attack saw them blown away as the game progressed.
Ferres powered over from close in before Brough pounced on a loose ball to give the visitors a cushion.
While Wakefield tried to push the ball around in an effort to find a response, Cudjoe and Ta'ai swooped on loose passes to add gloss to the result.
Wakefield head coach James Webster:
"We were definitely back in the game and had some momentum but we shot ourselves in the foot. We had two good breaks down our right-hand side and threw the ball away.
"You can't win games when you complete at 45% in the second half. That's been our Achilles heel all year and we continue to do it. Until we stop it, we won't win any games.
"Huddersfield weren't at their best either. That's the disappointing thing.
"There is only one way to turn it around and that's by working hard. We've a short turnaround before we go to Wigan on Friday night. There's no easy fixtures, the league doesn't allow you to hide."
Huddersfield assistant coach Kieron Purtill:
"It was good to get the win. We had a fantastic start before the game went a bit sloppy but the good thing is that we played our way out of that. We got our composure back and scored some good tries.
"The conditions today probably suited the game. The sun was shining and it was a fast track. Everyone got a bit giddy and it was touch football at times.
"We've a big game ahead of us on Friday and defensively we need to get better."
Wakefield: Hall; Riley, Collis, Arundel, Owen; Miller, T Smith; Scruton, Washbrook, Griffin, Lauitiiti, Kirmond, Ryan.
Replacements: McShane; Simon, D Smith, Crowther.
Huddersfield: Grix; McGillvary, Cudjoe, Wardle, Murphy; Brough, Ellis; Huby, Robinson, Kopczak, Ferres, Ta'ai, Lawrence.
Replacements: Crabtree, Hughes, Wood, J. Johnson.
Referee: Joe Cobb (RFL)
Catch up with Ski Sunday on the BBC
How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign

