NFL Veteran Israel Idonije Opens Up About Creating Comic Book Series
Some of Israel Idonije’s fondest memories as a child are of curling up with a comic book copy of The Green Hornet and escaping into the world of masked vigilantes and make-believe.
Yes, the six-foot-six, 275-pound Nigerian-Canadian defensive end who has spent 12 years in the NFL told The Huffington Post that, during his childhood, his parents -- whom he said always valued education -- allowed him and his siblings to watch just one hour of television each day. So the young Idonijes read books as another source of entertainment.
"That was kind of the environment we grew up in," Idonije said. "And when it was my reading time... I read comic books."
As each enchanting reading session nourished Idonije's growing interest in comic books, he never imagined that he would later create a comic book series of his own.
Now, two issues of Idonije’s brainchild The Protectors have been released under his publishing house Athlitacomics, and the series is currently being developed as a Madefire motion book. Details on the motion book's debut will be announced at the comic book expo C2E2 in Chicago in April.
Fusing sports with fantasy, The Protectors follows fictional football player Isaac Chike and other star athletes as their celebrity worlds get turned upside down when they learn that they are destined to be among the so-called Protectors, a group of gifted superheroes with miraculous powers.
(Story continues below image.)
Idonije insists Chike is not based on him, but there are striking resemblances: Chike is a defensive end and so was Idonije; Chike is a member of the Chicago Blaze and Idonije was a member of the Chicago Bears.
“It’s always funny especially with my teammates and stuff. They’re always like ‘it’s the comic book that’s about you but it’s not about you,'” Idonije said with a chuckle.
Similarly, the storyline of The Protectors may mirror the personal journey many professional athletes face when they retire or suffer a career-ending injury -- they identify as sports stars throughout their athletic careers but once that career ends they are forced to realize their gifts or "miraculous powers" off the court, field, or track.
“The reality of it is that all of us have multiple gifts," Idonije said. "All of us have the ability to be great and elite at multiple things, and sometimes it just takes the realization that you know there’s more to you than just this."
"All of us have the ability to be great and elite at multiple things."
Idonije came to this realization during his fifth training camp with the Chicago Bears in 2007. While his teammates were playing cards or video games in between practices, Idonije sat in his dorm room and envisioned the fabled tale of the Protectors.
What happened next? Idonije worked with acclaimed comic writer Ron Marz and artist Bart Sears to bring the idea of the Protectors to life in a printed book series. And now it seems as if The Protectors has invigorated Idonije’s passion for the comic book world even more.
When asked who his favorite X-Men character is, Idonije responds with a grin and no hesitation, Wolverine. Batman or Superman? Batman. Star Trek or Star Wars? Star Wars.
“People who love comics have always been there and have always supported that comic platform and space. There’s people who only go into their local comic shop and pick up comics,” Idonije said. “The people who are the heartbeat of the comic industry are still there.”
.articleBody div.feature-section, .entry div.feature-section{width:100%;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;} .articleBody span.feature-dropcap, .entry span.feature-dropcap{float:left;font-size:72px;line-height:59px;padding-top:4px;padding-right:8px;padding-left:3px;} div.feature-caption{font-size:90%;margin-top:0px;} blockquote {color: ##FF0000; background-color: white; width: 12em; margin: 1em; float: right; font-size:135%; font-style:italic; }
Also on HuffPost:
Written and illustrated by Terry Moore, the man behind the seminal book Strangers In Paradise, and also the recent book Echo, Rachel Rising is the tale of a girl who wakes up in her own grave. Moore is showcasing his unique design sense with covers that are consistently eye-catching. He also happens to be one of the best artists out there who illustrates realistic females.
When Marvel relaunched Daredevil with writer Mark Waid and artist Paolo Rivera (who has since been followed by Marcos Martin, Chris Samnee, and soon Mike Allred), readers were given a version of the Man Without Fear they hadn't seen in a while. This cover, by Chris Samnee (who also penciled the interiors) is a great example of innovative design that also offers hints of the story inside.
Drawn by series artist Gabriel Rodriguez, this cover to Locke & Key: Crown of Shadows #6 is another that has an eye-catching design while also telling you something about the story to come. I like this one so much due to its commentary on one character; Rodriguez brings an amazing level of emotion to the character's face, and if you can make me feel an emotion before I even open the book, then well done. If you're not reading this book, written by Joe Hill, then start. It is filled with emotion from every position on the spectrum. It will get under your skin and unsettle you. The plot is sort of hard to explain without ruining it, so just trust me. If you like supernatural thrillers/fantasies, seek it out.
Yuko Shimizu is the regular cover artist for The Unwritten, and I could have honestly chosen any number of her covers to feature here. They are beautiful works of art, and I'd kill to have any of them hanging on my wall. This is yet another book you should be reading. I don't have a ton of room here, but this is one of the most literary comics around. Written by Mike Carey and drawn by Peter Gross. Go forth and read my sons and daughters.
Drawn by the master, Dave Johnson, for Jason Aaron and artist Steve Dillon's Punisher MAX series, this cover is one of his gigantic library of amazing covers. He is such a reliable source of innovation and stunning visuals, and there's probably a 1 in 5 chance if you saw a cover you thought was great, it might've been his. That may be an exaggeration, but look at that cover. It makes you kind of delirious.
With the relaunch of DC comics' entire publishing roster came this title, Batman, written by Scott Snyder and illustrated by Greg Capullo. The interiors are some of the best work I've seen from Capullo, and this cover is a great demonstration of his work. Snyder's Batman is perfectly paired with Capullo's style, so go check it out.
Speaking of the DC relaunch, it had JH Williams III performing as both writer and artist for this Batwoman series. He did this cover, and was originally working in conjunction with Amy Reeder on interiors, but it has since been announced she won't be penciling the book any longer. This cover, by J.H. Williams III is yet another image I would not hesitate to hang on my wall. The interiors are just as unbelievable and breathtaking. Read this series, along with the first Batwoman series with Williams III as artist, Batwoman: Elegy, written by Greg Rucka.
This cover nearly blew my face around to the back side of my head. Illustrated by the artist Jock, this cover immediately became one of my favorites. It's from yet another Batman series written by Scott Snyder (with interiors by both Jock and Francesco Francavilla, whose work is phenomenal as well), this image is a great representation of how well the Bat-Family is being handled right now.
The cover to the final issue of one of the greatest contemporary comic series to be published. Illustrated by Massimo Carneval, this image stuck with me, and was a perfect place to start my emotional ride into this issue. Written by Brian K. Vaughan and illustrated by Pia Guerra, Y: the Last Man is a must-read. When everything with a Y chromosome dies, all but one man and his money, the world descends into chaos. When someone tells me they want to read comics I'll ask them what they like, then almost always recommend reading this.
Drawn by Tony Moore, co-creator and the series' original interior artist, this cover is without a doubt in my Top 5 Favorite list. For a book that is about to reach the 100th issue milestone, I think it's a big deal that the ninth book they ever put out is still so fresh in my mind. I doubt I have to say too much more about The Walking Dead. It's written by Robert Kirkman and drawn by Charlie Adlard. There's a TV show based on it, but you knew that.
Giants' Israel Idonije Finds Success in Comic Books - NYTimes.com
NFL's Israel Idonije creates comic book series for a good cause ...
Giants' Israel Idonije Finds Success in Comic Books
NFL's Israel Idonije creates comic book series for a good cause

