Floyd Mayweather v Manny Pacquiao: Pacman has been knocked out and it will happen again, says Floyd's father
By Gareth A Davies, Boxing Correspondent
3:57PM GMT 19 Mar 2015
Comments
Floyd Mayweather snr has responded to Freddie Roach's barbs this week by saying he believes Pacquiao could be knocked out by his son on May 2.
Mayweather snr began by referring specifically to Pacquiao being knocked out by Juan Manuel Márquez in 2012.
"Of course, any time somebody's been knocked ice cold like that, man, of course they can get knocked out again – quick, fast and in a hurry," Floyd snr told Mlive.com.
That view is endorsed by Roy Jones jnr, who says that Mayweather is 'still dangerous' offensively.

Floyd Mayweather snr pictured in 2009
Jones believes Mayweather may rely more on his power than he has in the past to defeat Pacquiao, and may sit down on his punches in this fight.
"Mayweather is older, but he has always had power and my use it more in this fight, which is dangerous for Pacquiao."

"It's hard to call a winner because there are so many variables. But Floyd's power is the key."
Returning to Roach's criticism of Mayweather snr, Pacquiao's trainer also said that he thought Mayweather jnr's uncle Roger Mayweather would have been a better coaching option.
But Mayweather snr thinks Roach is playing mind games. "I heard about what Freddie said about Roger being better," he said. "He can say that all he wants to say it. You want me to tell you what Freddie wants? He wants Roger in there because he knows I'm the man."
Roach is refusing to slow the pace of his verbal jousting with the Mayweathers.
After hearing about Mayweather jnr's lavish eating habits – his personal female chef is earning $1,000 per plate that she cooks – Roach commented: "I hope she knows how to make crow and soft foods palatable because after he faces Manny that is all Mayweather will be eating.

Floyd Mayweather jnr arrives for the first of many press conferences, March 2015
“I’ve read that Chef Q will be preparing meals high in protein which is perfect because Floyd is going to be eating a lot of ‘Leather à la Manny’ and it will be served piping hot. Thousand dollar meals, give me a break. Floyd is getting his just deserts on May 2,” said Roach.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pacquiao promises to be back to his devastating best
“Tell them to just wait,” Pacquiao, now 36, declared in reference to doomsayers who claim he no longer has the speed and the power that he had when he blew away Juan Diaz, Oscar De La Hoya, Ricky Hatton and Miguel Cotto during the purple patch of the Filipino's career between 2008 and 2010.
“I would like to relay to my detractors that I am trying very very hard to relive those days when I had been winning all my fights by sending my opponents to dreamland," Pacquiao, said on Thursday after 10 rounds on the mitts with Roach at Wild Card Gym in LA.
Promoter Bob Arum has weighed in on whether the fighters having aged will make a significant difference in this contest.
He explained: "They have both aged, but they have aged at the same pace. Floyd is a great defensive fighter with a great right hand. Manny is a combination puncher who throws the left hand from lots of angles. He's still one of the greatest boxers around."
"If this fight had not happened on my watch, in my obituary they would have written 'he was never able to make Mayweather-Pacquiao happen'. Thankfully, it will now go ahead," said the promoter who has been in the sport six decades.

