http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/612402/s/444b9301/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Cboxing0Cmayweather0Evs0Epacquiao0C1146610A0A0CFloyd0EMayweather0Elands0Efirst0Epsychological0Eblow0Eon0EManny0EPacquiao0Bhtml/story01.htm
Floyd Mayweather lands first psychological blow on Manny Pacquiao
By Gareth A Davies, Los Angeles
11:26PM GMT 11 Mar 2015
Comments
• Floyd Mayweather v Manny Pacquiao, LA press conference: as it happened • Watch: Highlights as Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao square up at LA press conference • Mayweather v Pacquiao: the fighters compared by numbers
Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao made their one public appearance together at a press conference in Los Angeles last night to set the ball rolling on the richest fight in history, with a purse of $250 million (£170 million), in Las Vegas on May 2.
The two men, both dressed in suits, faced off, calm and serious. There were no smiles, but a little tension. No pushing and shoving either. There appeared to be great respect between the two fighters.

Floyd Mayweather talks as Manny Pacquiao looks on in Los Angeles (EPA)
But it was Mayweather, cannily, who proved he remains a master of psychology.
"It's been a long road. But we are here now," said Mayweather. Thanking his entire team, and even appearing a little emotional, the unbeaten American added: "May 2, the fight of the century, the best against the best. And Pacquiao is one of the best of this era.”
Mayweather and Pacquiao meet up at the pre-fight press conference in Los Angeles
“Our plan is to be smart and take every fight as they come like all 47 fights. I'm in the gym pushing myself to the limit, because I want to win this more than any other fight. But I know one thing about sport, and if you lose, it's in your mind. I have always been a winner."
Mayweather has never lost; Pacquiao has lost five times.
"I just want the fans to be satisfied," said Pacquiao, who spoke first. "I'm so happy we could make the fight happen. Thanks to the Mayweather Team and to Showtime and HBO. The fans of boxing were waiting for this for five years. We are both going to train hard and we will do our best on May 2 to make you happy."
It will be the only time they face off until fight week, seven weeks away, both sides having decided to forego the media tour of several cities which is normally a part of these huge pay-per-view fight events.
The pop star Justin Bieber was found, again, at Floyd Mayweather's side (AFP)
Perhaps they are right. This fight is so big, has been talked about so much already and has been in the making for almost six years, there was barely the need to publicise it by a drawn-out tour held in several places over a number of days, when they could be in camp preparing for fight night.
But this coming together may have established the ground rules, and may be a moment when either side believes they have establish the upper hand in some way. At any rate, the world watched and craned its neck to see which side may have walked away today with an early advantage.
The making of “Money” versus Manny dates back to 2009, when talks first began, but arguments over drug testing and the details scuppered talks twice.
Manny Pacquiao makes his way into the press conference (Reuters)
The egos have been soothed, however, rival promoters have come together – Mayweather and his old impresario Bob Arum – and respective rival broadcasters HBO and Showtime have put down their swords for the betterment of the sport, and, of course, an obscene amount of money which is going to be generated.
Eleven-time, five-division world champion Mayweather (47-0, 26 KOs) and eight-division world champion Pacquiao (57-5-2, 38 KOs) are both fascinating studies.
Mayweather is the most highly paid athlete on earth, and his career earnings will rise to over half a billion US dollars from this contest.

In boxing terms, he is a defensive master, as his unbeaten record shows. But he has also been cannily matched in the last eight years of his 19-year career, picking off the biggest names just as they are beginning to slide, or before they are at their peak.
But he is, nonetheless, a brilliant boxer. But he is also the bad boy, with a reputation he uses to enhance his following and his haters. He has a brilliance and X-factor in the way he markets himself.
Pacquiao, brought up in poverty, is a Congressman in his country, and in many ways, has captured the hearts of Americans, as well as being adored as the most popular Filipino alive by his countrymen.
But most of it yesterday was just talk, and for show. The real detail begins today, and for the next seven weeks as they prepare for the fight of their lives, Pacquiao in Los Angeles, and Mayweather in Las Vegas.
