http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604246/s/3d1fdcdc/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Ccommonwealthgames0C110A0A83450CEnglish0Ebadmintons0Egolden0Ecouple0Esee0Eoff0EScots0Eto0Eclaim0Eplace0Ein0ECommonwealth0EGames0Efinal0Bhtml/story01.htm
English badminton's golden couple see off Scots to claim place in Commonwealth Games final
By Rod Gilmour
10:51PM BST 02 Aug 2014
Comments
The east end of Glasgow, coupled with a devilishly early mixed doubles semi-final, proved to be a match made in heaven for England’s top husband and wife badminton duo yesterday.
Chris and Gabby Adcock, who married last year, made full use of a less-than-boisterous atmosphere at the Emirates Arena and cut through the froth of the soap-opera sub-plots that accompanied their grudge match against Scottish rivals Imogen Bankier and Robert Blair to reach today’s Commonwealth Games final with something to spare.
Chris Adcock stopped just short of saying it was the “perfect game” in his post-match analysis, but he and his wife, the top seeds here, were close to it. They played 35 minutes of almost faultless badminton, winning 21-14, 21-14.
“This was a big occasion with a few different situations flying around with the ex-partners and things,” said Chris Adcock. “But we came out with a point to prove and we achieved that. It was a great performance and we got on top of them mentally.”
Indeed, this 9am grudge encounter had as much intrigue as a boxset of ‘Take the High Road’, Scotland’s longest-running soap opera. You also needed to get up at dawn just to be filled in on the quartet’s history, both on and off court in recent years.
Moment Adams wins boxing gold
Armitstead has score to settle
Golden girl Adams does it again
England's netball team choke again
Adams wins gold after split verdict
Moments that made Glasgow great
Chris Adcock had already forged a successful partnership with his future wife – they were former junior partners – when she was unceremoniously axed by Team GB bosses, with Gabby Alcock being replaced by Bankier in time to win a world championship silver in 2011.
The Adcock-Bankier pair then split after a poor 2012 Olympics, and the Adcocks again became a family combination. There was also an unedifying Twitter spat in the lead-up to those games. Bankier started the war of words with the line: “Why can English people not serve?!” It culminated with Jenny Wallwork, a former GB player and partner of Nathan Robertson, telling the Glaswegian to “jog on back to Scotland”. The pair apologised and Bankier later stressed that “it was just banter that got out of control”.
Meanwhile, Blair’s history goes back to the Delhi Games, when he was omitted from the squad. The Scot had originally switched allegiance to England in 2001 before being an unspecified falling-out with the English administrators saw him return allegiance to his native land.
With all that history, yesterday’s match had much to live up to, but in the end the scheduling did for the Scottish pair. Bankier and Blair were looking for vociferous local backing but it never arrived, with supporters still settling into their seats during the first game.
The English pairing raced out of the blocks, creating space with deft drops and clever lifts to leave the Scottish duo consistently on the back foot and out of position.
The only bit of needle came in the second game when Blair hit Gabby Adcock on the shoulder with a vicious smash, while only the time the married couple missed a beat came two points later when Gabby was caught in two minds at the back of the court and hit into the net.
“We came out really well and stuck to the plan,” Gabby Adcock said afterwards. “We managed to keep our cool as it was quite tense out there. We knew we were a quicker pair than them so we wanted to use our speed, play soft shots at the same time. Moving quickly and laying it off in the gaps was our plan and we managed to do that well.
“Maybe they were nervous playing here. I wouldn’t say they were sluggish. We had more games than them.”
Bankier was at a loss to explain the early scheduling. Organisers, with the help of broadcasters, might have had the option to change the clash to a later time, but with Chris Adcock already playing in the men’s doubles, it was always going to prove difficult.
“For nine o’clock in the morning it was a good crowd,” was all Bankier could offer. “We were up at six this morning. It’s slightly unusual to be playing so early but you can understand why.”
The Adcocks will now meet another English pair in today’s final after Chris Langridge and Heather Olver, the surprise package of the mixed doubles event, beat Peng Soon Chan and Jing Lai Pei, of Malaysia, 21-15, 20-22, 21-13. It was a spiky encounter, more so than the one being played out on the adjacent court.
“This shows the strength in depth right now in English badminton,” added Chris Adcock.
Langridge and Olver’s win was controversial. An incident in the second game saw the shuttle come off Langridge’s racket before Olver hit a winner. The Malaysians protested, though they did win the game.
The Malaysian, Pei Jing, then admitted that her partner “didn’t play very well and made me lose confidence”. Clearly not a match made in heaven.
