Meet the young wrestlers of Cuba, in pictures
Commonwealth Games 2014: This was wrestling, without panto of WWE
By Jim White, Glasgow
7:44PM BST 30 Jul 2014
Comments
In the hall where the Commonwealth Games wrestling competition was taking place there was no sign of men with steroid-swollen biceps hitting each other over the head with step ladders. At no point did the lights dim and the room fill with the chimes of a funeral bell, to announce the arrival of a competitor dressed in a black leather frock-coat, astride a Harley-Davidson.
This was not wrestling as most of us know it. There was no choreographed pantomime here. No fraudulent pretence of combat. Instead, a packed crowd were treated to the sight of highly skilled, highly trained, highly motivated athletes trying to pull, wriggle, grapple or trip each other to the ground. Plus, in Aminat Adeniyi of Nigeria’s ecstatic shuffle as she won the 58kg women’s gold medal, the most exuberant celebration of the games so far.
“It’s a really simple sport,” said Cary Depel, the chairman of British Wrestling, who was watching from the stands. “Get in low, drive up, get the other guy off his pins and he’s owned.”
On the open-stage area lithe, compact, hugely fit competitors drove at each other, spinning round in an intimate waltz, their arms locked around each other’s neck, flicking and kicking at each other’s shins. This is freestyle wrestling, a different discipline to the Greco-Roman style unleashed at the Olympics. Here there is the chance to attack an opponent’s leg. Which means it looks less like an unholy amalgam of Crimewatch and Strictly Come Dancing as devised by Alan Partridge.
Included in the first Commonwealth Games, it is an ancient sport (though the point of victory has changed somewhat from its roots in classical Greece, where bouts ended in death or submission, whichever came first). And for the British wrestler, it is the most likely chance they have in international competition to stand on the podium.
Millar looks to show true colours in Scotland jersey
Whitlock claims gymnastics gold
Usain Bolt calls Commonwealth Games 'awesome' and denies saying it was 'a bit sh*t'
Barrow and Couch claim diving silver for England
Greene: Wales duo didn't 'deliberately cheat'
Games boss defends Bolt after Glasgow comments
“This is really the best level for us to pitch,” said Depel, who took the chairmanship of the sport last October, bringing a much-needed injection of vision. “It’s not realistic to say that where we are today we can win an Olympic medal, or even a European one.” Which is no real surprise as there are no more than 1,500 people regularly participating in wrestling across the UK. Or about 700 fewer than were packed into the SECC to watch Adeniyi celebrate.
Depel’s task is to try to increase numbers, to introduce more people - particularly women - to a sport which he says develops in its participants “courage, ambition, discipline and the will to win”.
“It’s the perfect sport for us. No matter how civilised we like to think of ourselves in England, there’s a bit of growl.”
To get more people involved requires many things, from good facilities and good coaches to links with mixed martial arts, a rapidly growing sport that demands of its best fighters a wrestling background.
What it needs most of all, though, is some visible success. Before the London Olympics, those then in charge of wrestling tried to buy in a little stardust, importing a couple of Ukrainians in the hope that putting them in a GB vest would spark an interest. It did not work. The charge of Plastic Brits wrapping themselves in a union flag of convenience was hard to shake off. Especially when said Ukrainians crashed out in the early stages of London competition: nobody likes a foreign loser.
A couple of gold medals here in Glasgow from the home participants, however, and the sport would be, just for a moment, on the map.
“Leon and Yana Rattigan, they could be our poster stars,” said Depel of the pair representing England. “Theirs is a lovely story.” The home-grown Rattigan met his Ukrainian wife – then called Stadnik – while training for the Olympics. But there was no suggestion that this was a marriage to circumnavigate immigration rules. You could tell that when the now Mrs Rattigan revealed that her husband had wooed her with trips to Blackpool, Stonehenge and Liverpool. That is love.
But Depel’s hope of his poster girl seizing the headlines came to nought on Tuesday, when she fell in the final. At the conclusion of the bout, she looked inconsolable, wearing a Bradley Wiggins-scale scowl on the podium.
For her husband the prospects turned out to be even less auspicious. A man with a physique which would be the envy of the England rugby team’s back row, he looked nervous, sluggish, defensive as he took on the Indian Satywart Kadian in the semi-final of the 97kg competition. A check of the website www.wrestlingname.com insisted that were he to engage with the comedy of the WWE, Rattigan would take the name Macho Rock (Kadian would be Red Dash, while I would be The Great Cross Dresser). But sadly this Rock lost his footing, crumbled and was obliged to scrap for bronze, a medal he won in far more aggressive style, cheered on by his excited other half. Silver and bronze, though: it was not the headline grabber the sport required.
“There’s only one way for British wrestling to go from where we are now,” a philosophical Depel said. “And that’s up.”

