http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604265/s/2c868e17/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Colympics0Cwrestling0C10A0A852280CWrestling0Eseeks0Ean0Eimmediate0Ereturn0Eto0Ethe0EOlympic0Efold0Eafter0Ebeing0Edropped0Efrom0E20A20A0Eprogramme0Bhtml/story01.htm
Wrestling seeks an immediate return to the Olympic fold after being dropped from 2020 programme
By Simon Hart
7:32PM BST 28 May 2013
Comments
Wrestling is one of eight sports that will be making behind-closed-doors presentations in a battle for the one available vacancy at the 2020 Games after it was voted out of the ‘Olympic Family’ in February.
The other sports vying for the slot are a combined bid from baseball and softball, who lost their Olympic status after the 2008 Games in Beijing, karate, roller sports, sport climbing, squash, wakeboarding and the Chinese martial art of wushu.
The IOC is expected to draw up a shortlist of three or four sports, with the final decision being taken at its session in Buenos Aires on Sept 8, and already wrestling has been installed by bookmakers as odds-on favourite to make a swift return.
The decision to axe the sport has led to an unlikely alliance between the United States, Russia and Iran – three of the most successful nations on the Olympic wrestling mat – who joined forces to lobby the United Nations in New York two weeks ago before staging a series of exhibition wrestling bouts at the city’s Grand Central Terminal.
Russian president Vladimir Putin made a personal intervention earlier this month when he described wrestling’s removal as “unjustified”.But FILA, the sport’s international federation, is relying on more than just political muscle in its campaign for a change of heart by the IOC.
Wrestling dropped from Olympics
Wrestling loses its grip on the Olympics
Wrestling and modern pentathlon under threat
Why it’s not disturbing to watch women wrestle
The organisation now has a new president, Serbian Nenad Lalovic, a reformed governance structure that has handed athletes a greater say in its decision-making process and a series of rule changes to make the sport more spectator-friendly.
Among the recently adopted changes, the federation approved more categories for women, eliminated draws and altered the format of bouts from three two-minute rounds to two three-minute periods.
“We had the strength to change,” said Lalovic on Tuesday. “We made mistakes in the past for sure. Now we are looking forward.”
As well as its strong political support, wrestling can also point to its history as one of the sports of the ancient Games in Greece and an ever-present in the modern Games with the sole exception of 1900.
But its request for an immediate return to the Olympic programme has not gone down well with the seven other candidate sports who have been campaigning for inclusion in the Olympics for several years and who have now found themselves overshadowed by wrestling’s ability to dominate the media agenda.
“They are a little bit surprised,” admitted Lalovic. “They had two years to prepare. We had three months. We are here because we were not good enough. They have to think about their sport.”
The IOC’s decision will be watched closely by the three candidate cities for the 2020 Games – Madrid, Tokyo and Istanbul – who will also be making presentations in St Petersburg ahead of the host-city vote in September.
The leader of the Istanbul bid, Hasan Arat, has already thrown his support behind wrestling’s reinstatement because of its popularity and tradition in Turkey.
“It is important for Turkey because of our success and because it is a national sport but this is an IOC board decision which we have to respect,” he said. “I see lots of changes in wrestling and I hope wrestling will remain in the Games.”
Meanwhile, Ukrainian pole-vault great Sergei Bubka has become the sixth IOC member to throw his hat in the ring to succeed Jacques Rogge as IOC president when he steps down in September.
Bubka, the former Olympic and six-time world champion and a vice-president of the International Association of Athletics Federations, joins a list of candidates comprising Germany’s Thomas Bach, Singaporean Ng Ser Miang, Puerto Rican Richard Carrion, Taiwan’s C K Wu and Switzerland’s Denis Oswald.
