Snow Polo St Moritz World Cup 2015: Huge snowfall slows down building of infrastructure for Cartier Trophy
By Gareth A Davies
2:05PM GMT 27 Jan 2015
Comments

The massive snowfall over the last week has created challenging ice conditions on the lake of St. Moritz for this year's tournament, which starts on Friday.
Organisers of one of polo's most glamorous events, the 31st Snow Polo World Cup, report that it has made it more difficult to erect the infrastructure as the four teams and their horses make their way from Zurich by train through the mountains.
Due to the 3ft of snow which fell, the weight has had an impact an impact on the ice layer over the lake, pressing it into the underlying water.
It has meant that water has risen to the surface despite the ice being of very good quality; structures that had already been put up ended up standing in slush and had to be dismantled again.
Polo players: how to keep fit over the winter
'Polo is incredibly lucky to have Cambiaso'
Gilmore lauds Cambiaso skillset
Snubbing Cambiaso is a disgrace
Thanks to the low temperatures, the slush has since turned into ice—however, it has not yet been possible to take up construction work again all over the lake.
As a consequence, organisers have cancelled the building of a new terrace which was planned beside the polo field.
"Having to give up on the terrace was very difficult, as our guests would have enjoyed a very special moment being so close to the polo game," said Reto Gaudenzi, the tournament’s CEO.
"We were able to relocate the lounge and the restaurant for our VIP guests to another tent, but we had to slightly reduce its capacity."
The marquee village will remain, nonetheless. "The teams of Lake Infra, Christoffel Constructions, Electro-Koller, marquee constructor Blasto, as well as Roth, the constructor of the stands, have all done a brilliant job over the past days," added Gaudenzi. "We are looking forward to a fantastic tournament."
On Monday, 100 polo ponies arrived on site and this week will be shod with special, rubber-lined 'hoof-grip' horseshoes. Then, they will have a few days to become acclimatised to the altitude and snow.
Training sessions are on the agenda for Thursday and, from Friday until Sunday, the four teams will compete for the coveted Cartier Trophy at the world’s only high goal polo tournament on snow.
From Snow and Ice to Sand - Polo on the Beach slated for Cornwall
Watergate Bay’s biggest event, the award-winning Polo on the Beach, is returning with a new three-day format for its ninth year this summer. The spectacle has attracted thousands of people each year since 2007 to watch a showcase of world-class polo, equestrian displays and family entertainment.
Previously a two-day event, Polo on the Beach has been extended to take place from Friday June 26 to Sunday June 28 this year.
“Polo on the Beach is always a major highlight for us, and we’re planning our biggest event to date for 2015," explained Watergate Bay’s Will Ashworth.
“Around 10,000 people joined us last year to watch international polo players take to the sand. We saw some brilliant family entertainment on the beach with lots of opportunities for the public to get involved, and this year spectators can expect even more.”
Tickets will soon be available for an evening beach party after the weekend’s main polo match on Saturday 27 June. The beach party, a new element to Polo on the Beach, will include music entertainment, food and drink.
For more information visit www.watergatebay.co.uk/polo.
We are looking for more polo clubs to be featured in the Telegraph during 2015. Email and

