Super Bowl 2015 trailer round up: Terminator, Jurassic World & Avengers
By Rebecca Hawkes
11:43AM GMT 02 Feb 2015
Comments
Yesterday, the US Super Bowl 2015 took place at Arizona's University of Phoenix Stadium. While American football fans might have been focused on the big game, for movie aficionados, the commercial breaks were just as exciting. Disappointingly, two of the year's most highly anticipated films – Batman vs Superman: Dawn of Justice and Star Wars: The Force Awakens – were no shows. But fans were treated to a new Jurassic World trailer, as well as spots for Marvel sequel Avengers: Age of Ultron, Terminator reboot/remake Terminator: Genisys and Furious 7. Below we've rounded up some of the big films advertised during this year's match.
Jurassic World

The first trailer for Colin Trevorrow's forthcoming dinosaur adventure sequel, Jurassic World premiered last November, featured stars including Chris Pratt and Bryce Dallas Howard, hinted at the film's mysterious hybrid dino, and unveiled a beautiful moment during which a mosasaurus leapt up and devoured a shark. The new super bowl trailer didn't disappoint: there was more mosasaurus, some vicious-looking pterosaurs, velociraptors, and our first glimpse at the hybrid, Indominus Rex (the name means "fierce or untamable King"). Terrifyingly, Indominus Rex "hunts for sport", rather than just food (although, to be fair, keen hunter Chris Pratt does exactly the same thing). Jurassic World opens in June.
Fifty Shades of Grey
Which 2015 movie are you most looking forward to?
Star Wars 7: latest news and rumours
11 great American craft beers to drink during the Super Bowl

In Fifty Shade's Super Bowl spot, Jamie Dornan's Christian Grey introduces Dakota Johnson's Ana to his "play room". "Like, you're X-Box and stuff?" she hazards. No, Ana. No. The film, directed by Sam Taylor-Johnson, is released this Valentine's Day.
Ted 2

Ted 2's 30-second-long Super Bowl spot (above) featured a cameo from an American football player, Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, who appears in the sequel as a sperm donor (the movie's ursine antihero has plans to become a father). Ahead of the Super Bowl spot, a longer, more risqué version full-length trailer was also been released.


Avengers: Age of Ultron

We were treated to a brand new Avengers: Age of Utron trailer earlier this month, so it seemed pretty unlikely that Marvel would bring out another one so soon. What they did do, however, was show an edited, 30-second spot, consisiting of edited footage from the previous trailer: a nice reminder of just how much Disney (who owns Marvel) is going to domiante the box office this year. The superhero sequel, scripted and directed by Joss Whedon, opens on May 1, and features several new additions to the existing ensemble cast, including Elizabeth Olsen's Scarlet Witch, Aaron Taylor-Johnson's Quicksilver and James Spader's robot antagonist, Ultron.
Minions
One for kids (and big kids), llumination Entertainment's Despicable Me spin-off Minions unveiled a 30-second, sports themed teaser during Sunday's Super Bowl.

Terminator: Genisys

The first Terminator: Genisys trailer left fans of the original films feeling a little dubious about Alan Taylor's reboot. But worried audiences got the chance to have their doubts assuaged (or to be disappointed all over again) when the 30-second Terminator Super Bowl teaser below was released online ahead of the Super Bowl. As expected, there's quite a lot of additional Arnie – or, to be precise, additional Arnies: the 67-year-old appears in the trailer both as he is now, and as he did back in 1984. The film is released in July.
Furious 7
Previously known as Fast and Furious 7, Universal's Furious 7 is the seventh film in the street racing Fast and Furious series (despite the name change, things will presumably still be fast, as well as furious). The film, which is released in April, will feature the final movie appearance of Paul Walker, who sadly died in November 2013, when filming was only halfway completed. The trailer below was unveiled during yesterday's game, and is pretty much as expected: cars, explosions and Vin Diesel being VIn Diesel. (After watching the trailer, we strongly recommend you check out Vin Diesel's 10 greatest internet moments).

Tomorrowland

Walt Disney Pictures aired a 30-second teaser for new sci-fi mystery Tomorrowland during yesterday's Super Bowl. George Clooney fans, rejoice: the actor stars in the film as Frank Walker, a "grizzled inventor". Released in May, Tomorrowland is directed by Brad Bird (who started out directing animated Pixar films such as The Incredibles before making his live action debut with Mission: Impossible – Ghost Protocol), and co-written by BIrd and Damon Lindelof (Lost, Prometheus).
The Divergent Series: Insurgent

A new trailer for the second instalment of Lionsgate's teen franchise, based on Veronica Roth's best-selling books and starring Shailene Woodley as lead Tris and Theo James as Four, aired during the pre-match show. Enjoy Kate Winslet's extra-icy turn as Erudite leader Jeanine Matthews.
Pitch Perfect 2

The Hunger Games star Elizabeth Banks makes her directorial debut with this musical comedy sequel, starring Anna Kendrick, Skylar Astin, Rebel Wilson, Anna Camp, and Brittany Snow.
Katy Perry feat. Juicy J - Dark Horse on MUZU.TV.

