http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568937/s/42eee09e/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Camericanfootball0C1138340A40CSuperbowl0Evictory0Efor0ENew0EEngland0EPatriots0Bhtml/story01.htm
Superbowl victory for New England Patriots over Seattle Seahawks as Tom Brady joins the immortals
By Oliver Brown, Phoenix, Arizona
3:37AM GMT 02 Feb 2015
Comments
Tom Brady has joined the immortals. It has taken a decade of waiting, but the bashful son from San Mateo, California, can now legitimately inscribe his name among gridiron’s all-time greats after becoming only the third quarterback in history to hoist the Vince Lombardi Trophy four times. Joe Montana, Terry Bradshaw, and now Brady: this could be established for a generation as the Mount Rushmore of the National Football League, as his New England Patriots edged past the Seattle Seahawks for a 28-24 victory at the climax of the most breathless, compelling Super Bowl in recent memory.
The Patriots profited to a large degree from an unfathomable decision by Seattle quarterback Russell Wilson to pass rather than run the ball in the dying seconds as the Seahawks, the defending champions, chased what would have been a game-winning touchdown. Why throw, from the one-yard line, with over a minute left on the clock? It was a question that the hordes of Seattle fans who flooded into Arizona found themselves asking long into the Phoenix night, as the resulting interception by Malcolm Butler ensured the glory was all New England’s.
Wilson’s moment of madness is destined to be remembered as one of the worst calls in Super Bowl history. But Brady will look back upon this as his ultimate catharsis. Twice he had suffered the anguish of defeat by narrow margins on the game’s ultimate stage, including here in Arizona in 2008, but he bull-headedly refused to be thrice denied. Finally he is a quadruple champion, while the Patriots cemented their status as the NFL’s pre-eminent dynasty with a fourth Super Bowl triumph in 13 years. He is 37 years old, having been all but written off earlier this season before he spearheaded New England’s extraordinary surge. Few would doubt that this moment will pique his appetite to haul himself clear of Montana and Bradshaw for the right to be acclaimed the finest of them all.
For much of this pulsating occasion it looked as if Seattle’s defence would be unbreakable, especially when Brady’s first attempt at a touchdown pass was picked off right at the goal-line by Jeremy Lane. Sadly for Lane, the intervention would be his first and last role of the night, as the cornerback was removed with a suspected broken arm after being bundled over the sideline by Julian Edelman, arriving with the force of a freight car on the Union Pacific railroad.

The best Super Bowl XLIX
Watch: Super Bowl halftime show highlights
Super Bowl XLIX: Baffled? Here's all you need to know
Brady handed his place in history
New England Patriots wide receiver Julian Edelman (11) runs after catching a pass
The Patriots’ offensive strategy was too one-dimensional at first, appearing to consist of little more than Brady handing off to LeGarrette Blount, a battering ram of a running-back but limited in influence when, on a fruitless first-quarter drive, he made eight plays by himself for 27 yards. All of Brady’s favoured passing routes were cut off by Seattle’s marauding ‘Legion of Boom’ secondary. The first time he sought to pick out favourite Rob Gronkowski in the end zone, the tight end found himself smothered by Kam Chancellor.
Belatedly, a connection clicked early in the second quarter, when Brady hit Brandon LaFell for an 11-yard touchdown pass. The gusto with which the quarterback celebrated, butting helmets with all and sundry, suggested he saw the first saw as pivotal to the momentum of this duel. He reckoned, though, without the reawakening of opposite number Wilson, who rebounded spectacularly after a quiet opening to find wide receiver Chris Matthews haring down the right for a 41-yard pass.
Wilson knew precisely who to turn to next: Mr Enigmatic personified, Marshawn Lynch. The recalcitrant Lynch had spent the entire week rebuffing countless media advances – at one point giving 29 repetitions of the answer, “I’m only here so I won’t get fined” – but while he was not much use answering questions, he was lethal at rampaging through New England’s defensive lines. Resplendent in his gold cleats, he simply needed to bounce off the helpless Darrelle Revis to bring the Seahawks level.

Cheerleaders prepare for the Super Bowl
If Lynch was Seattle’s talisman, the Patriots identified theirs in the form of Gronkowski. The 25 year-old, universally nicknamed ‘Gronk’, has evolved into a cult figure for New England, not just in honour of his ever-reliable receiving but also his propensity for hurling the ball into the turf after a touchdown with a fearsome exclamation mark. There was soon another chance for him to unleash his party trick here, as he evaded the attentions of KJ Wright easily to catch an exquisite pass from Brady, who duly equalled Joe Montana’s record of throwing 11 touchdowns in Super Bowl play.

Wilson had all of 46 seconds before half-time to engineer a riposte. His quickness of thought was astonishing as a rapid-fire drive culminated in a touchdown for Matthews, a revelation for Seattle on the night, even if Patriots head coach Bill Belichick had cause to be disgruntled with his lackadaisical defence. It was to become worse, however. The Seahawks re-emerged showing the same flourish with which pop star Katy Perry had entered the stadium for her half-time show aboard a giant robotic tiger. The irrepressible Matthews, who had only been on the practice squad until December, made a 45-yard catch to go with his earlier mammoth grab, and before New England had time to blink they were down to a Steven Hauschka field goal.
Brady, patently was rattled. He gave away the evening’s second interception when a pass intended to Gronkowski on third down was snatched away in a flash by linebacker Bobby Wagner. The Seattle defence, true to their formidable reputation, would not let the Patriots rest for even a fraction of a second, and Wilson did not hesitate to punish Brady’s lapse. First he faked a pass to Lynch and there, in swathes of space in the corner of the end zone, wide open to take the reception.
It was all Brady could do to salvage his fast-diminishing dream, and he made the noblest effort of it when, early in the fourth quarter, he espied Danny Amendola for the touchdown that reduced the deficit to three points. The decisive score would soon follow, as Edelman executed a brilliant spin move away from Tharold Simon to put another dent in this vaunted defence. Wilson had time, and plenty of it, to produce Seattle’s reply, when it mattered most he faltered with that inexplicable choice, with Lynch in devastating form, to pass, not run.

New England Patriots fan enjoys the occasion
A melee erupted in the chaotic aftermath, with Bruce Irvin ejected from the field from throwing a punch on Gronkowski. Irvin’s actions were born of pure rashness: it was merely that he could not quite believe what he could just witnessed. Nor could anybody else present. Not that Brady will much care, of course. Phoenix simply stood in thrall to 'Tom Terrific', now a fully-fledged icon.
