Fernando Alonso crash piles pressure on McLaren as Flavio Briatore questions 'very strange' version of events
By Daniel Johnson, F1 Correspondent, Melbourne
9:35AM GMT 10 Mar 2015
Comments
Fernando Alonso’s manager, Flavio Briatore, has fuelled speculation surrounding the Spaniard’s testing accident, describing it as “very strange”, while questioning McLaren’s claim that nothing went wrong with the car.
Briatore, formerly team principal of Renault, attempted to quash worries about Alonso’s health, but appeared to point the finger of blame at McLaren for the crash which put the 33-year-old out of Sunday’s Australian Grand Prix. He also described McLaren’s communications throughout the whole affair as “not brilliant”.
“He crashes without any reason,” Briatore told Italian television. “It was not even that dramatic. The impact was not so hard. We have to see if there was a steering problem.
Flavio Briatore (right) is a former team principal of Renault. Source EPA
“We have not had any information on that from McLaren. The accident, if you see it, you do not say: 'Mamma mia, what a crash.' It is the sort of accident you see all the time.
"The angle in which the car hit the wall could have been bad for Fernando. The impact was hard."
McLaren have said that they found no evidence a mechanical failure – including rumours of an electric shock – had anything to do with Alonso’s crash on February 22 at the Circuit de Catalunya.
All that is known about Alonso’s medical condition is that he suffered a concussion which was sufficient to put him out of the season-opening race in Melbourne. But the absence of information has triggered speculation the two-time champion may also be suffering from some mystery illness.
Fernando Alonso is out of hospital but will miss Australian GP. Source REUTERS
Reports in Spain last week said that when Alonso came round after the accident he had forgotten the last 20 years of his life. El Pais, the newspaper in question, are close to Alonso’s management but Briatore rubbished their claims.
"If Fernando had had a problem, a heart problem, a small stroke, a blood clot; it can happen even to a great sportsman," he told Sky Italia.
"And we have seen that absolutely all the examinations and tests made on the driver were negative.
“People said a lot of stuff; that he woke up and said: 'I'm young and I race in karts.' That is nonsense.
"El Pais wrote it and everyone else wrote about it because it was almost funny. There was a time when he lost some memory, but it lasted two or three days.
"If Fernando had had problems, the doctors would have discovered them. If he had passed out briefly, they would have seen. We did hours of tests with the leading specialists in Europe."
Briatore has not been directly involved in Formula One since he was found guilty of fixing the 2008 Singapore Grand Prix so that Alonso could win.

