http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/637567/s/20f09f92/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cengland0C93714190CEuro0E20A120ELiverpool0Eand0EEngland0Ecaptain0ESteven0EGerrard0Enamed0Ein0EUefas0Eall0Estar0EEuro0E20A120Esquad0Bhtml/story01.htm
Euro 2012: Liverpool and England captain Steven Gerrard named in Uefa's 'all-star' Euro 2012 squad
By Henry Winter, Football Correspondent, Kiev
10:15PM BST 02 Jul 2012
Comments
“Gerrard was a star,” said Andy Roxburgh, Uefa’s technical director, of the England captain. “The group thought Gerrard played really, really well and showed great leadership qualities. He was clearly tuned into the plan that Roy Hodgson had and we thought he contributed in a top-level way.”
Andres Iniesta was voted Player of Euro 2012 because he embodied the type of “creative, humble” player that Uefa wants to promote. Iniesta just beat Andrea Pirlo, Xavi and Xabi Alonso to the Uefa honour.
“Pirlo was magnificent and seriously considered,” said Roxburgh. “If Xavi had played every game like the final he would’ve won it. Xabi Alonso was magnificent but we gave it to Iniesta.
"We felt it was important to send a message that a creative, incisive, attacking and flowing type player can be so effective.”
“Xavi is the orchestrator. Iniesta is incisive, he goes past people effortlessly. It’s so simple – but that’s because genius is simplicity. Xavi or Iniesta will take the ball with two or three guys around them and keep it, turning away, twisting, backing themselves to screen the ball or dribble clear.’’
Euro 2012: 20 things we learnt
Carragher's team of Euro 2012
'PL needs more foreign stars'
Henry Winter: Spain magic shames the English
Fiesta time in Madrid ... again
Iniesta: Spain's success unbeatable
Spain started with no recognised striker and Roxburgh said: “Carlos Alberto Perreira (the ex-Brazil coach) told me eight years ago that ’the future is 4-6-0’ and I laughed.
He said: ‘You’ll have the back-four – and then you have Holland! Total football. Six who can do everything.’ Watching Spain, that’s what it is.
"Spain have two, three, four arriving in the box all the time. If you’re playing against a sophisticated defensive block with classic twin strikers it’s not so easy to be a threat. It’s about arriving late with an incisive run.
“The whole team is a framework for freedom. So if Xavi goes on a run the rest rotate into other positions. It’s become intuitive because they’ve trained like this for years.’’
Uefa's Squad of the Tournament Goalkeepers: Buffon (Italy), Casillas (Spain), Neuer (Germany).
Defenders: Pique (Spain), Coentrao (Portugal), Lahm (Germany), Pepe (Porturgal), Ramos (Spain), Alba (Spain).
Midfielders: De Rossi (Italy), Gerrard (England), Xavi (Spain), Iniesta (Spain), Khedira (Germany), Busquets (Spain), Özil (Germany), Pirlo (Italy), Xabi Alonso (Spain).
Forwards: Balotelli (Italy), Fabregas (Spain), Ronaldo (Portugal), Ibrahimovic (Sweden), Silva (Spain).
