Scotland 1 England 3: Roy Hodgson's side wake from Euro 2016 qualifying slumber with electrifying victory
By Paul Hayward, Celtic Park
10:55PM GMT 18 Nov 2014
Comments
England’s Euro 2016 qualifying campaign had become soporific, but this “unfriendly” match jabbed Roy Hodgson’s men awake. The Scottish crowd made sufficient noise to provoke them into action and the players set about the job with a sharpened pride.
A Scotland side of seven Championship players, two from Celtic and one each from Everton and Hull City were never likely to evoke the great days of Kenny Dalglish and Graeme Souness, however good Gordon Strachan’s team have been of late.
England needed to steel themselves to impose a superior pedigree. A goal from Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain and two for Wayne Rooney brought 2014’s fixtures to a close with a note of serenity. This, after a turbulent World Cup in Brazil.
Strachan called this the best England display of recent times in this fixture and praised their “intensity.” Rooney’s captaincy has now reached a natural pitch of authority and Hodgson enters the winter hiatus able to claim that the New England are maturing nicely without the usual stress of runaway expectation.
It began, as you would expect, with the broth of ancient enmities well and truly stirred. Before kick-off, with the Proclaimers belting out ‘500 Miles’, a kilted bagpipe band on the pitch, and England fans so electrified by the atmosphere they could barely decide how to channel their excitement (some bounced, some span on the spot), it was impossible not to be seduced by the sheer entrenched craziness of a fixture that dates back to a 1872 and a match on a cricket pitch here in Glasgow.
Wilshere can be England's midfield quarter-back
Celtic Park provides raucousness - but little else
Scotland v England: as it happened
Rooney double secures England victory
Back then, Bell’s Life reported it as “one of the jolliest, one of the most spirited and most pleasant matches that have ever been played according to Association rules”.
As Sir Alf Ramsey night have said, you must be effin’ jokin’. As the teams arrived outside Celtic Park an excitable throng pressed police lines and Rooney was singled out for attention by Scotland fans, who chanted about his sexual proclivities. But it was mostly cartoon animosity: shouts and chants followed by laughter.
Terry Butcher, the former England captain who has spent much of his career north of the border, had warned England’s players: “It will be hostile, noisy and everything that you want to have as a player because it will certainly test you as a character. It will test your ability and your bottle on the day, because Scotland will want to win the match.”
Mutually assured destruction was the policy adopted by both sets of fans for the anthems, with Scottish whistling loud enough to drown out God Save the Queen, and their voices sufficiently impassioned to smother English hostility to Flower of Scotland. By the time all this was over, the stadium throbbed with political energy. One half-naked England fan skittered along the front row of seats, unable to contain his agitation.

With the game in its early stages, the lower tier of English support launched into a ‘F*** the IRA’ chant that lasted for 10 minutes. England’s ‘official’ band thumped its drums to the words –all three of them – while hundreds sang and clapped. The IRA are an obsession of England’s travelling support. When Oxlade-Chamberlain put England ahead on 32 minutes, the choir went into overdrive.
The complication with these ‘Auld Enemy’ games, of course, is that they are subject to the new laws of rotation and big club power. Behind the hype, each manager was husbanding his resources in the wake of last week’s Euro 2016 qualifiers. Imagine, in the glory days of this fixture, England’s first-choice goalkeeper not just being rested but sent home to his club.
While Joe Hart went back to Manchester City, Hodgson awarded starts to Chris Smalling, Luke Shaw, James Milner, Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain and Stewart Downing - chosen ahead of Ross Barkley, who would have benefitted from starting in this febrile atmosphere.
If Barkley’s occasional weakness is his decision making, what better way to test that mental faculty than with tens of thousands of hostile Scots shouting in his ear. Downing, who has excelled through the middle for West Ham, played mostly on the left of a midfield three. Thus he was returned to something like the role in which he had failed to shine before his England career fizzled out in 2012.
It was Jack Wilshere, though, who changed the first half, after being told to remove his earphones in the warm-up by Gary Neville. Wilshere’s ball to Oxlade-Chamberlain was the most artistic moment of the opening 45 minutes. Watching him play, you always dread some mistimed sliding tackle that jackknifes him in mid-stride. There was one such scare before the interval but Wilshere rose to fight on.
By the time the teams replaced the lone piper on the pitch, for the second-half, Downing was gone, replaced by Adam Lallana, and Rooney was plotting another surge in England’s all-time scoring scroll. A brace raised him to 46, two above Jimmy Greaves, two behind Gary Lineker and only three short of Sir Bobby Charlton’s record.
Captain, centurion, in caps, and record breaker elect on goals, Rooney was England’s strongest connection to the days when these games were struggles for honour and supremacy, and felt like the biggest dates in the international calendar.
In Switzerland and here in Scotland, England displayed a capacity to raise their game according to need. They will need that in France, in 2016. They certainly needed it here, and have done, since 1872.

