Cycling doping report: I do not recognise this almost tabloidesque account
By David Millar
7:30AM GMT 09 Mar 2015
My first feeling on finishing reading the CIRC report was one of disappointment. I didn’t speak to CIRC. They ‘invited’ me. Only they forgot I was then an active professional cyclist who spends most of his time on the road and has a wife and two baby boys at home. I never found time to travel to them and they never once mentioned coming to me. I regret not making the time after reading the report.
It is clear the report has focused its energies on fulfilling only part of its mandate. The lengthy tracts on the ‘cronyism’ displayed by the ‘Executive President’ or ‘Enlightened Dictator’ that was Mr Hein Verbruggen are comprehensive and back up much of what we within the sport believed to be happening within the UCI and yet were powerless to change.
On the other hand I am disappointed by how the report addresses the state of doping in cycling today. It goes as far as quoting a ‘respected cycling professional’ saying, ‘that even today, 90 per cent of the peloton was doping’. This falls firmly into the arena of ‘public shaming’ that the report is vehement about removing from the sport.
It made me wonder what riders/former riders they had interviewed.
By my calculations they interviewed 25 riders/former riders. 16 of these allowed their name to be published in the report the other nine preferring to remain confidential, as is their right. Of the 16 names published only one is a current professional cyclist: Chris Froome.
Cycling doping report: 10 things we learnt
Armstrong ban backed as former UCI presidents accused
Cycling report: Doping remains widespread
McQuaid defends presidency ahead of doping report
So who did they interview in order to gauge the state of the modern peloton? Because the majority of those published interviewees left the sport due to a doping ban never to return. Aren’t these exactly the type of people who suffer from ‘the “false consensus effect” where athletes with a history of drug use overestimate the prevalence of drug use among other athletes’ that the report talks of?
I have worked closely with National Governing Bodies, National Anti-Doping Agencies, WADA, Race Organisers, the media, and have even been a team owner as well as a professional cyclist during the majority of the period the CIRC’s mandate was focused on.
And yet I find much of the report to bear little resemblance to the state and mood of the modern peloton. It feels almost tabloidesque in its description of the state of doping today.
I wonder how many of those anonymous interviewees were clean riders from today’s peloton? I take my hat off to Chris Froome for taking the time to speak to CIRC and also waive his right to anonymity, but where are the others? After all, what is the ultimate reason for this investigation? It has to be more than simply cleansing a new administration of wrong doing.
Fundamentally it must be protecting current and future generations.
David Millar with the Britain team at London 2012
The report states that part of its aim is ‘to assist UCI to make the changes necessary to avoid mistakes in the future.’ Understanding the past is integral to avoid repeating mistakes in the future, the CIRC has recognised this. Unfortunately I think they have not appreciated the necessity to understand the present to fix a baseline from which to move forward.
The sport has changed. All stakeholders have had to adapt. Some have led, others have followed. Almost all have understood. This is what it takes to change a culture. It’s not just about new anti-doping controls. It’s preposterous to recommend allowing random Out of Competition Controls between 11pm and 6am as the CIRC report does. The whereabouts system already has the power to test an athlete within the registered testing pool between 6am to 11pm, 365 days a year.
Within that window of time the athlete must also supply a location where they can be guaranteed to be for the duration of one hour. Failure to be at that location on that hour results in a missed test, or a strike. Three strikes results in a ban. To propose increasing that to night-testing shows zero empathy for the current state of cycling.
The majority of riders winning the biggest races are clean. Of course, there are still dopers, just as there will always be people who break the law in non-sporting life. It’s human nature.
David Millar celebrating victory for Garmin-Sharp
But not long ago doping was endemic. The barrel was rotten. Now dopers are a minority, more akin to finding the occasional bad apple amongst the good. We need to maintain this state of affairs and start looking after the clean riders and not treating them all as criminals. They already endure the legacy of tarnished generations.
The CIRC report is on the right track with an independent whistleblower mechanism; something that we can believe and trust will offer absolute confidentiality.
This would have to work alongside one of the other CIRC recommendations - an increase in investigative ability, because often this will involve more than simple anti-doping controls but also cross-border relationships with governments and national authorities in order to make use of their investigative tools.
Hopefully this will help regain the trust of the peloton, because that is the biggest hurdle for the UCI to leap, and probably explains the high rate of people who choose not to let their doping control samples be used for research. They just don’t trust the powers that be even if they are innocent.
My regret for not speaking with CIRC is tinged by irony, because I am an ex-doper. For many I will always be a doper; which is true. I, like many others, have worked incredibly hard to create an anti-doping culture within cycling, and yet the CIRC report paints a picture of a new omerta and once again it’s the innocent and clean cyclists who are silent. I wish I could have given them a voice.

