http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568364/s/4495a1e3/sc/24/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ccricket0Ccricket0Eworld0Ecup0C114839370CCricket0EWorld0ECup0E20A150EBrilliant0Egeneral0EBrendon0EMcCullum0Eleads0ENew0EZealand0Eto0Ethe0Ebrink0Eof0Ehistory0Bhtml/story01.htm
Cricket World Cup 2015: Brilliant general Brendon McCullum leads New Zealand to the brink of history
By Scyld Berry
6:10PM GMT 19 Mar 2015
Comments
Is history made by great men? Or by a combination of factors and forces? Cricket will find out in the next nine days.
Brendon McCullum, 33, is not a great batsman, although he has played a great innings or two, like the first Test triple century for New Zealand. But he is undoubtedly a great leader, and if he can captain New Zealand to victory in their next three matches – starting with their quarter-final against the West Indies in Wellington on Saturday, followed by a semi-final against South Africa in Auckland – it will be the greatest moment that his country’s cricket has known, even a chapter in their social history.
New Zealand’s cricketers used to be dour and defensive underdogs, forever overshadowed by their neighbours across the Tasman. McCullum, bold and attacking, has pumped his team with self-belief and made them as aggressive as Australia, without boorish excesses.
McCullum launched his first ball of the World Cup for four
From the moment McCullum launched his first ball of this World Cup over extra cover for four, he has attacked in a style which English one-day cricket has never known in the half-century of its staid existence, or perhaps imagined. He hit 257 runs off 137 balls himself, and propelled his country to top their pool with six wins out of six.
England attacked with the new balls, then tried to contain for 50 overs. McCullum’s strategy is to dismiss his opponents inside 50 overs – well inside. In the 1992 World Cup New Zealand tried to bowl as slow as possible; under McCullum they bowl as fast as they can.
In the qualifying round, McCullum’s team bowled out Australia for 151 in 32.2 overs, and England for 123 in 33.2. Both times he administered the coup de grace by bringing back one of his strike bowlers early for a second spell, while the new balls were still swinging. Tim Southee wrecked England with seven for 33, Trent Boult destroyed Australia with five for 27. It was brilliant generalship, undreamt in English philosophy.
McCullum consoles England captain Eoin Morgan
It is not only a question of fast bowling. McCullum brought Daniel Vettori on for the seventh over against Australia. A spinner in the first powerplay? We do not do that sort of thing in England. Unconventional, old boy.
McCullum leads – and why wouldn’t you follow?
But one thing he cannot do is bat for his team and cover up the deficiencies. Kane Williamson is a banker, dismissed only once for single figures in ODIs since 2013. But the others? Mitchell Starc ran through their middle order; even Scotland nearly did.
Ross Taylor is not the batsman he was when he was captain: his spirit was grievously dented when he was displaced by McCullum, as he had to be, because while Taylor was good, McCullum is great. At five, Grant Elliott’s technique suggests he is a couple of places too high.
McCullum is currently New Zealand cricket's favourite son
So McCullum will have to play a couple of big innings in the next three games to cover these cracks. And he has risen to previous occasions, not only with his 302 against India, but his 158 in the first ever match in the Indian Premier League, making it an instant success. And in the first Test at the Hagley Oval last Christmas, when cricket in Christchurch – where he now lives – was reborn, McCullum was a hit away from the fastest Test double century of all time: his 195 came off 134 balls.
As Wellington is Southee’s favourite ground, because it swings inside the Cake Tin, New Zealand may penetrate the West Indian batting too. The West Indies have plenty of talented all-rounders, not many watertight batting techniques.
The West Indies, however, can beat any team on their day. They cannot win their next three games because they do not have reliable batting, but they can spark into brilliance for a day and knock anyone out. No man has powered his country to the World Cup single-handedly, but McCullum’s career trajectory suggests it is not beyond him.
