Australia’s batting remains brittle and Pakistan could take advantage in World Cup quarter-final
By Scyld Berry
10:07AM GMT 18 Mar 2015
Comments
Cricket has captivated New Zealand during this World Cup as never before. The veteran commentator Ian Smith called the qualifying match against Australia at Eden Park the greatest occasion in New Zealand’s sporting history, and that was before they edged over the line at the climax by a single wicket.
In Australia the World Cup has been much more muted. Long intervals between games of significance have allowed people to switch off cricket and on to their winter sports. A Sydney newspaper earlier this week devoted its first six pages of sport to rugby league, its seventh to football, and only its eighth to cricket.
Australians have also been distracted from the cricket by their favourite sport of all: Pommie-bashing. “World Cup Shock – England beat Scotland” was one obvious joke. But England’s “campaign” gave Australians many other chances to make fun.
One Australian commentator jibed: “England’s brave attempt to mix it with the heavyweights has inspired the producers of ‘Cool Runnings’ – the movie about the Jamaican bobsled team – to plan a new film chronicling their exploits. ‘Computer Says Yes’ will star Colin Farrell as captain Eoin Morgan, and Eddie Redmayne will play the data.”
England captain Eoin Morgan shows strain at his post-match press conference. Source GETTY IMAGES
Our scribe could not resist adding a little salt by imagining this quotation from the ECB’s managing director Paul Downton: “We hoped that coming from a bigger cricketing nation like Ireland, Eoin’s influence would rub off on the team.”
New Zealand’s cricket season did not come to life until after Christmas; Australia’s has been interminable. Phil Hughes died last November and rightly has not been forgotten. Earlier this week David Warner related, on television and in tears, how he had held Hughes’s arm after he had been felled at the crease in Sydney.
Since then Australia have had an emotional four-Test series against India; the thrills and frills of the Big Bash; the on-going saga of whether Michael Clarke will be fit or not for the business stages of this World Cup, which start for Australia with their quarter-final against Pakistan on Friday; and a tri-series against England and India which Australia won without breaking sweat. More than enough for most people in one season.
So one of the many points of interest when Australia meet Pakistan in Adelaide will be whether the relative lack of public interest in this World Cup takes the pressure off the hosts, or leaves them uninspired. National enthusiasm pumped up India in 2011 to win three enormous matches in nine days.
Australia’s cricketers were on the road long before their season at home began. They toured the UAE where they were not beaten by Pakistan in the Test series but absolutely mauled. The World Cup is a different format, but the one team that can look Australia in the eye – the one team to have got on top of them since the Ashes of 2013 and blessed memory – is Pakistan.
Adelaide suits Pakistan. They have played two of their qualifying matches there, losing to India and beating Ireland. If it were Perth or Brisbane, where Pakistan have never won a Test and where their batsmen have always been embarrassed by the steeper bounce, they would have no chance; but Adelaide, with its short boundaries to either side, suits Pakistan’s batsmen, who tend to play square of the wicket, and their bowlers.
Totals have mounted above 400 in this World Cup – if not when England have been batting – partly because reverse-swing has been rare. But Adelaide’s drop-in pitch and square were abrasive enough, and Pakistan’s pace bowlers skilled enough, for the ball to “go” against Ireland, especially when Sohail Khan dropped his left shoulder and curled the ball both ways.
As in 1992, when they came from the back of the field, Pakistan are switching from cold to hot during this World Cup. Their batting is still wobbly, for all the patience of the imperturbable Misbah ul-Haq, and even after the introduction of Sarfaraz Ahmed as opening batsman and keeper, but if they bat first and post anything above 250, they could eliminate the hosts.
Australia’s pace bowling however is just as strong, or even stronger when it comes to swinging the new ball. Mitchell Starc and Pat Cummins are starting to make an awesomely fast and skilled opening pair, aged 25 and 21. If they, and Mitchell Johnson and Ryan Harris, are still firing by July, England might be thankful if they only lose 5-0.
But Australia’s batting remains brittle. It can rattle up 400 – Australia’s 417-6 against Afghanistan was the highest ever World Cup total – but it can also collapse from 80-1 to 106-9, as in that epic qualifier in Auckland.
Tim Southee and Trent Boult ran through Australia, not by banging the new balls in but by bowling quick, full and straight, and swinging them. Warner, for one reason and another, has been too hyped-up to rein himself in if Aaron Finch gets out early; Steve Smith does not have the technique of a number three; Clarke, owing to his injuries, has had very few innings; and Brad Haddin cannot counterattack and rescue his team forever.
It is this brittleness of Australia’s batting under pressure which gives Pakistan, and England next summer, at least an outside chance.

