Yorkshire mourn death of Bob Appleyard
By Nick Hoult
8:28PM GMT 17 Mar 2015
Comments
Yorkshire are mourning one of their great post-war cricketers after the death of Bob Appleyard yesterday at the age of 90.
Appleyard played nine Tests for England and was an integral part of the Len Hutton’s team who won the Ashes in Australia in 1954-55. He bowled quick off-spin and seam and was dangerous on uncovered pitches, taking 708 first-class wickets in a career which was cut short by illness and injury.
Appleyard broke through in 1951 when he took 200 first-class wickets in his debut season but he was then struck down by a life-threatening bout of tuberculosis.
He had part of his lung removed and was not expected to play again, but he came back to take 154 wickets in 1954 and earn a call-up for the tour to Australia. He retired in 1959 because of a shoulder injury.
His life was marred by tragedy. His younger sister died of diphtheria and when he was 15 his father, stepmother and two younger sisters were found gassed in the bathroom of their home in Bradford. Later, his son Ian died of leukaemia and he lost his grandson John to the same disease.
He was influential in setting up the Yorkshire academy, which has produced many England players, and was later president of the club.
“It is desperately sad to have learnt the passing away of Bob Appleyard,” Colin Graves, Yorkshire’s chairman, said. “Bob was tenaciously loyal to the club throughout his lifetime, and an excellent president. Without doubt he’ll be remembered as one of Yorkshire cricket’s post-war greats. He played for Yorkshire and England with distinction and gave everything to the game.”
Geoff Cope, the former Yorkshire and England off-spinner, said: “The hardest thing for a captain to do with Bob was to get the ball off him once he was into his spell and this was because he saw bowling as a great challenge, particularly against top-class batsmen.
“There was always feisty competition between himself and another great Yorkshire bowler, Johnny Wardle, but each had a great respect for the other and took immense pleasure in doing their best for the team.
“Bob was respected around the world and his work for cricket charities connected with the Yorkshire club was outstanding. His love of Bradford Park Avenue was to the fore in all of his cricket conversations.”

