http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569413/s/4390368c/sc/38/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cchelsea0C114234820CFormer0EChelsea0Eplayer0EFrank0ELeboeuf0Egets0Ein0Eon0Ethe0Eact0Ewith0EOscar0Ewinning0Eperformance0Ebut0Eoff0Ethe0Epitch0Bhtml/story01.htm
Former Chelsea player Frank Leboeuf gets in on the act with Oscar-winning performance – but off the pitch
By Jim White
6:48PM GMT 19 Feb 2015
Comments
Somewhat behind the zeitgeist as usual, this week I finally went to see The Theory of Everything, the stirring biopic of Stephen Hawking. What struck me was not the chilling accuracy of Eddie Redmayne’s turn as the great physicist, nor the tear-inducing romance of the plot, it was the identity of a bit-part performer.
The moment the final scene ended, the conversation I had was one which I imagine has been repeated in cinemas across the country. It went like this:
Me: “That bloke who plays the doctor, I’m sure I recognise him from somewhere.”
Companion: “Which doctor?”
Me: “No, not a witch doctor, the bald bloke in the clinic who tells Mrs Hawking that Stephen needs a tracheotomy and will never speak again. What’s he been in?”
'Most would have thrown toys out of the pram'
How to keep Hazard under wraps? Kick him
Revealed: Your club's most under-rated player
The 20 most ridiculous things Zlatan ever said
Companion: “Sorry, I must have blinked when he was on.”
After sitting through the credits, way past the key grip, best boy and Mr Redmayne’s wardrobe assistant, came the big reveal. The Swiss doctor, who sticks a scalpel in Hawking’s throat to save him from the effects of pneumonia but in the process inevitably severs his vocal chords, is played by Frank Leboeuf. The very same Frank Leboeuf who played for Chelsea. That Frank Leboeuf who liked to take a penalty, who won the FA Cup and Cup Winners’ Cup with the Blues in the impoverished, pre-Abramovich days of the Nineties.
When he retired from the game he took off to Los Angeles and became an actor, specialising in all kinds of hair-free roles. This week, as his old club took on Paris St-Germain and his former supporters were fouling the Métro system, he was on stage in Paris in a comedy called Avec Ma Belle Mère et Moi.
French connection: Leboeuf celebrates winning the 2000 FA Cup with compatriots and Chelsea team-mates Marcel Desailly and Didier Deschamps Photo: ACTION IMAGES
And this Sunday, Leboeuf is in line for a unique distinction. He could become the first person in history to boast both a World Cup winner’s medal and involvement in an Oscar-winning movie. Never mind that his part is so small he was not invited to the film’s premiere, never mind that an ill-timed issue with a contact lens might render his contribution entirely invisible to the judges, should The Theory of Everything pick up a gong that would represent some honour. To hit the very summit in two professions is no minor achievement. Though, when you come to think about it, it is an odd thing that it has not happened before. Especially given how closely the two pursuits of acting and football resemble each other.
With the events in Hollywood on Sunday in mind, over the weekend every television commentator will be looking out for play-acting on the field of play to unleash their well-buffed Academy Awards comparison. When a player conducts a little mime of flourishing a card in an attempt to get an opponent booked, or rolls around after being tackled as if suddenly convulsed by an electric shock, or engages in a carefully choreographed goal celebration, you can guarantee somebody, probably Jonathan Pearce, will suggest they deserve an Oscar. If it is Chelsea’s No 8 engaging in such activity, so much the better: give Oscar an Oscar. Already you know the introductory montage on Match of the Day 2 on Sunday night will centre around a 12-inch tall, gold-plated man. And it is not a reference to the owner of West Ham.
Modern football is an act, a mummers’ play, a rolling pageant of heroes and villains, of plots and subterfuge, of a continuous attempt to trick and cajole. Just like the movies. Some – such as Didier Drogba or Cristiano Ronaldo – have become wizened experts at the subtleties of persuasion. Others, such as Rivaldo at the 2002 World Cup, who went down clutching his face in convulsive agony when struck lightly on the knee, or Chile international Bryan Carrasco, who once grabbed the arm of Ecuador’s Edson Montano and used it to slap himself across the face in the attempt to trick his way to a free-kick, might need more work.
Centre stage: Rivaldo sparked a storm after the Brazil forward feigned an injury Photo: GETTY IMAGES
Yet however useful an apprenticeship for acting might be offered by playing the game, thus far only Vinnie Jones and Eric Cantona have joined Lebeouf in the transition from football pitch to silver screen. But now the Frenchman has set a gold-plated standard, a succession are primed to follow his lead.
So who could be next? Having demonstrated their hip-grinding prowess in a splendid homage-to-Shakira goal celebration at the World Cup, James Rodríguez and his Colombia team-mates would be a shoo-in were there to be a remake of A Chorus Line. While for the requisite bendy-limbed ability to take a tumble, surely no one can touch Ashley Young in the dash to be the next Spiderman. Though when it comes to superheroes Young has competition. On Monday night in Preston, the crowd were witness to an outstanding audition for the part of Superman. Was it a bird? Was it a plane? No, as he flew through the air without any apparent physical intervention, it was Wayne Rooney.
