Jenson Button remains optimistic despite serious McLaren engine issues
By Daniel Johnson, F1 Correspondent, Melbourne
10:07AM GMT 17 Mar 2015
Comments
Jenson Button left Melbourne remarkably upbeat for a man who finished dead last, miles off the pace, and is now facing the warmest race of the year with an engine McLaren have admitted can’t handle the heat.
Button, a master at rallying his troops, was still insisting after the Australian Grand Prix that his beleaguered new machine will eventually be the one to challenge Lewis Hamilton and Mercedes. Button’s compatriot won the first race of the year at a canter.
- Lewis Hamilton wins Australian Grand Prix with ease
For time being it seems McLaren-Honda will be facing plenty more pain. Honda admitted they had to detune the engine in Australia due to issues with cooling, but Malaysia is much warmer, with temperatures punishingly high.
Button finished 11th and last in the season-opener, with team-mate Kevin Magnussen’s engine blowing up before he even got the grid. It has left the team, not to mention its chairman Ron Dennis, the mastermind behind the return of Honda to McLaren, facing ridicule. But Button remained astonishingly optimistic about the future.
Jenson Button says the engine will not fail in the heat of Malaysia (Credit: PA)
The 35-year-old said: “Honda could probably have built an engine than is better than where it is now, but it wouldn’t be an engine that could challenge the top manufacturers in the future. Whereas this engine can.
“But you’re always going to have more problems with it because you’re pushing the boundaries. The layout of the engine is very aggressive. That’s why we’ve had detuning issues and overheating issues because it is aggressive.
- Lewis Hamilton says he would beat anyone in the same car - Red Bull threaten to quit F1 after Australian GP failure
“In many ways, it’s probably wrong for me to say, it’s probably more like a Mercedes than it is the other two manufacturers. In terms of design, aggressiveness, and packaging. But it’s going to take a little bit of time.
“If we didn’t have that hope you wouldn’t see the strong effort by the whole team. They’re not just here because they’re paid to be here. They’re here because they’re passionate about racing. They’re looking forward to the future as much as I am.”
Button said he had no fears that the engine would fail in the 35-degree heat of Malaysia. “We’ve got two weeks to improve cooling to the certain parts that need it,” he added. “I don’t have any worries with cooling at the next race.”
McLaren-Honda’s dire performance so far has been a source of major embarrassment for the team. Before this car was unveiled, all the talk was of reviving the great years of the late 1980s, when the partnership swept aside all before them with Ayrton Senna and Alain Prost behind the wheel.
Lewis Hamilton eased to victory in Melbourne (Credit: GETTY IMAGES)
But it is worth noting that Honda’s most recent involvement in F1 was not a success. They were widely regarded to have the worst engine on the grid and quit the sport at the end of 2008 during the height of the financial crisis.
Eric Boullier, McLaren’s racing director, has previously indicated it will be the European season in May before the team are in competitive shape. However, in Melbourne he refused to set a date for their recovery.
"There is no timeframe," Boullier said. "Starting from where we are, the base is here. It's a little bit of a circle, the chicken and the egg.
"We can develop the car, but if you don't go fast enough you don't switch the tyres on so you lose a lot of [car performance] parameters. The more we increase the capacity and performance of our car, the more we will unlock the potential of the car.
"So we should massively unlock some potential at the beginning, but when we will achieve a decent competitive result, I don't know yet."

