USA v Czech Republic, men's ice hockey - Sochi 2014 Winter Olympics: live
By Thom Gibbs
7:30PM GMT 19 Feb 2014
Email or tweet with expert analysis and help with the finer points of this sport

USA 5 CZECH REPUBLIC 2 CANADA 2 LATVIA 1
19.40 Here is your match report, as promised, which also takes in the Canada v Latvia match. That'll be all from this liveblog. Thanks for your company, I'll talk to you again soon.
19.30 While we wait for a full match report to arrive, might I tempt you to switch sports for the rest of the evening? You can follow Arsenal v Bayern Munich in the Champions League with Jonathan Liew over here. It's what's known as a soccer event. It'll be really good, honest.
19.25 That's quite the appetising game for Friday, we shall almost certainly be covering it live again. And the final on Sunday, of course. We might even work out what "icing" means before then
19.20 Canada hang on and will face USA in the semi-finals!
FULL TIME
0.25 Canada fail to take the opportunity to score into an empty net. Latvia called for an offside.
0.43 We're in a time out. The commentators on this match are north American. I immediately feel far more at home. The organist segues what sounds like Bon Jovi's Runaway into Textbook American Sport Organ Music #1. You know the one.
1.30 Yeah. that's right, I've switched to Canada v Latvia for the dying seconds of this games. It's more tense and louder than the America game. Latvia on the attack.
19.15 That's the lot! 5-2 to America. A job well done. Here they are, hardy souls all:

1.07 A last defiant blast from the organ. It's Europe's The Final Countdown into Textbook American Sport Organ Music #2. You know the one.
2.09 Some near-instant answers to a now-irrelevant question, from Nathan Riggs, David Bowers and Adam Roush
Latvia beating Canada is like someone in the Championship beating Man U. at Old Trafford
It would be the equivalent of the US beating Brazil in a World Cup quarterfinal
It's like Canada beating England in football. Or, perhaps, Canada beating Spain.
3.52 Czechs attempting to find someting with time ticking away, but are leaving themselves vulnerable to the counter. Bigger news from elsewhere, Canada have taken a 2-1 lead over Latvia!
4.32 You know which game is far closer than this? Yes, it's Canada Latvia! And it's still 1-1. Can someone conversant in both hockey and association football (that's the "soccer," American friends) explain what the equivalent would be in football to Latvia beating Canada?
7.00 GOAL!! USA 5 Czech Republic 2 (Hemsky) Wow, that's a helluva goal! Hemsky shifts it to his stronger side in an instant then launches an unstoppable hit into the top corner of the net. No chance for Quick, and is that a tiny glimmer of hope for the Czechs?
10.25 Thankfully, America don't look that keen on turning this power play into any more goals. Here's an email from your friend and mine Shaun Russell:
I'm an expat Brit in the US and I'm loving the Olympic Hockey. Also a die-hard LA Kings fan so it's good to see Brown and Quick having a good game. Great stuff. My girlfriend, on the otherhand, is Russian....
13.08 Power play for the Americans, which seems harsh and unnecessary. It's turned into a deeply disappointing game for the Czechs, who looked bright and keen to make this into a non-literal fight in the first period.
14.17 The hits from the organ are definitely getting weaker. It's the Birdy Song now. No thank you. On the other side it remains Canada 1 Latvia 1.
17.55 GOAL!! USA 5 Czech Republic 1 (Kessel) Too easy for America, with Kesler picking out Kessel who's skating into open ice to his right. Easy finish from close range, and America are out of sight.
18.50 Mighty pile-up around the American goal, the most amusing aspect of which to this hockey-watching novice is the referee hopping up on top of the net to figure out if the puck has crossded the line. Eventually, with seemingly every player in a pile, play is stopped. No goal.
20.00 Right, let's have a third period then. That seems to be the way this sport has arranged itself. Can you think of any other sports split into three periods? I'm struggling. I'm also not thinking very hard.
18.38 How about those Canadas? Here's one of them making an unholy alliance between face and board:

18.26 No. There was some shoving, and a a few blocked shots. America defending too well and too deep to be undone. Would take quite something for them to throw this away. Same time in the Canada game, which remains far more tense and 1-1.
END OF SECOND PERIOD
0.15 Can the Czechs make anything happen before the end of the period? The answer is....
2.06 America turning the screw as an increasingly scrappy period ebbs away. Not doing much to work Salak in the Czech goal. A growing sense that the men from the USA are content with this scoreline and shan't be doing much to improve it. Chance at the other end as the Czechs put the puck right across the goal area, but there's no-one on the end of it.
4.55 Scrapping and sliding close to the Czech net! Salak stands tall and prevents a close range shot from doing anything dangerous.
8.40 Stop-start few minutes. Icing call, a time out. Not a lot happening. No change in the score in Canada Latvia either, incidentally. By way of apology, here's Jonathan Quick doing his thing:

10.21 A break in play as some troublesome glass close to the American bench is seen to. An email from Mark McGinnis:
Where is the cliché about 2 goals being the most dangerous lead in soccer football hockey?
Hmm....
10.28 GOAL!! USA 4 Czech Republic 1 (Parise) Czechs punished on the power play! Pavelski with a slap shot from deep, misses, but Parise is quickest to collect it as it rebounds close to the post. He steers it in off the hapless Czech keeper. Pavelec, for it is he, is pulled immediately by the Czechs, replaced by Salak.
11.25 Another decent save from Quick, who stops a frightening Cervenka shot. Power play now coming up for the Americans, after Zbynek is called for interference. The Canadrians also have a power play against Latvia, it's still 1-1 there.
14.24 Still America sat deep and only attempting the odd breakaway. Backes found again as the spare man again beyond the far post, but his shot this time is off target. Would it be absolutely impossible for the organist to have just played a Strokes song? I swear I just heard this:

16.55 Much more sedate and measured pace to this second half after the craziness of the first. USA seemingly happy to hit the Czechs on the break, the Europeans not looking like unpicking a crowded American defence yet.
20.00 We are both off an under way. Jaromir Jagr takes it forward and manages not to break a hip. Whatever next, Wayne Gretzky? See, I know ice hockey!
17.52 Here come the padded men! Let do this, teams!
17.47 An email from David Elkin, who isn't best pleased with the British Broadcasting Corporation:
The BBC has taken the coverage of the hockey off their red button (and replaced it with the resuming bobsleigh). This is slightly irritating given the USA v Czech Republic game looks all set to be fairly epic. I thought the hockey was one of the high profile events at the games? Surely its Quarter Finals should deserve at least some billing. Especially with the world class quality on show.
17.37 At the break in the Canada Latvia game too, which remains 1-1.
END OF FIRST PERIOD
0.01 GOAL!! USA 3 Czech Republic 1 (Backes) 1.8 seconds left on the clock and Backes extends America's lead! Intentional wide shot finds him off the board and he steers it past the diving Pavelec, who might have stayed up longer.
0.49 Big save from Quick to deny Smid! Bats away a shot from the left with his glove.
1.48 Another chance for the USA, with Kane looking for Parise on the left with the Czechs looking shorthanded in defense. Doesn't quite find him.
2.37 I am delighted to learn that the organ tradition remains in Olympic level hockey. Organist is currently playing something suitably Russian. Previously we were treated to an odd rendition of the Coldplay song Viva La Vida.
3.31 Darzins equalises quickly for Latvia against Canada! Patrick Sharp put the Canadians ahead.
5.10 GOAL!! USA 2 Czech Republic 1 (Brown) Nicely worked by the Americans, finding Brown open beyond the far post, with the goaltender stranded. Sits up slightly as it comes to Dustin Brown, but he sends it in off the near post. Canada have taken the lead as well!
5.38 A better spell for USA, the Czechs standing firm for now, though. They've lost a bit of their impetus after a spectacular spell around their goal. Here's James Van Riemsdyk scoring the opening goal:

8.28 It's still mostly the Czechs in control, but USA make the best of a face-off in the Czech zone and Cam Fowler hits the post! Van Riemsdyk with a good chance shortly afterwards on a breakaway... Pavelec saves.
10.22 Fantastic spell for the Czechs. Nedved hits the bar at the end of a sustained period of pressure. Seen the Czech equalisiing goal a few times now and it was actually sterred in by McDonagh off of Suter. Is own goal an ice hockey term? In fairness, it took the commentating team as long as me to figure out what had happened.
12.24 Frantic start from both teams, the Czechs trying to settle down a little with some more deliverate play in their own zone. They're in control, and have been since scoring, but they're yet to create another major chance. Still 0-0 in Canada v Latvia. Here's an American fan having a pleasant time:

15.30 GOAL!! USA 1 Czech Republic 1 (Michalek) Great response from the Czechs, some quick, intricate play to work it central from the left, a spin from Barinka that the Americans can't track and it's bundled in by Michalek. Quick, perhaps, should have dealt with that slightly better.
16.12 Slightly missed opportunity for the Czechs as Jagr fails to spot an open Cervenka to his left, and sees his shot blocked.
18.21 GOAL!! USA 1 Czech Republic 0 (van Riemsdyk) A goal from more or less nothing. Plenty of early pressure from the American, but there was no obvious space for van Riemsdyk, who takes the puck close to the net at a tight angle. He spots a small but dangerous gap, takes aim, and the Americans are ahead.
20.00 Here we go then. I've just realised Jaromir Jagr is playing! He's one of about seven ice hockey players that I've heard of! He's 42! Forty-two! Fantastic.
17.04 Here are the starting line-ups:


17.02 Here come the teams! Glorious kits all round. I especially like how the Czech's is basically just their flag.
17.00 The glorious BBC are merely telling me that "a live stream is coming up shortly". Let's hope I've not missed six goals, a check from a Czech and several fights. Are there fights in Olympic hockey?
16.50 My pal Alan Tyers took care of the final USA group game for us over the weekend. Being a hockey novice, as the vast majority of us Brits tend to be, he was extremely dismayed to discover that the BBC were broadcasting the game without any commentary. Let's all hope that I'm not om a similarly desparate situation this afternoon.
16.40 Do you want to see some pictures of some sad Russians after they were knocked out earlier today? Here you go:



16.30 Afternoon liveblog fans.
It's the ice hockey, it's the quarter finals, it's North America v Europe, twice, and it's all extremely exciting.
Russia are out, so Sweden and Finland will play one another for a place in the final. USA v Canada is the highly likely other semi, although Latvia have already sprung a surprise in this tournament, knocking out the Czechs in the qualification play-off stage.
We interrupt this liveblog to bring you some awe-some music.

For a person whose hockey knowledge begins and ends with the game shown above I'm potentially going to have quite the challenging few hours here.
You'll help me to understand, right? And be understanding when I'm not sure which player has pucked up. That's my last puck joke. I hope.
Stay tuned for live coverage. I shall be concentrating on the USA game but will keep an eye on events in Canada v Latvia too. Both start in half an hour.

