Republic of Ireland 0 Slovakia 0: match report
By Mark Ogden
9:35PM BST 02 Sep 2011
Comments
Robbie Keane might have secured his move to Hollywood, but the LA Galaxy forward has yet to find a decent scriptwriter judging by the sleepless-night inducing miss which denied the Republic of Ireland a potentially crucial victory against Slovakia.
Only Keane, Ireland’s 51- goal all-time leading scorer, will know how he failed to make it 52 having been picked out unmarked, four yards from goal, by Damien Duff’s 74th minute cross.
Yet with the goal at his mercy, the former Tottenham forward somehow headed the chance over the crossbar, a costly miss which saw Ireland concede top spot in Group B to Russia ahead of Tuesday’s pivotal clash in Moscow.
Qualification remains within Ireland’s grasp, with second spot and a play-off place also up for grabs, but an end to the ten-year wait for participation at a major tournament now appears to have inched further away.
Although Ireland began the game with their fate firmly in their own hands, confirmation of Russia’s 1-0 victory against Macedonia in Moscow merely turned the screw on Giovanni Trapattoni’s players by heightening the need to claim three points against the Slovaks, thus avoiding the more onerous task of having to win in the Luzhniki Stadium on Tuesday.
Long blow for Republic of Ireland
Trapattoni's dates with destiny
The European nation pots
Stokes reveals Ireland 'struggle'
Italy 0 Republic of Ireland 2
Republic of Ireland 1 Scotland 0
But ten years and one day after Roy Keane inspired Ireland to qualification for the 2002 World Cup with a 1-0 win against Holland in Dublin, the current incarnation of the Irish squad faced a far less intimidating opponent with a collection of players lacking the fire, quality and belief as Mick McCarthy’s team.
Slovakia, good enough to eliminate Italy from the World Cup last summer, but also a team incapable of beating New Zealand at the same tournament, had spoken prior to this game of their belief that a point would suffice for their own ambitions.
And despite the fitness gamble of selecting half-fit captain Marek Hamsik, the Napoli playmaker, Slovakia were clearly content to frustrate the Irish and flood their defence in an effort to secure the point they sought.
Ireland, over-reliant on the ageing Robbie Keane and Damien Duff, simply could not find a way through the Slovakian rearguard beyond a speculative Keane scissor-kick which failed to trouble goalkeeper Jan Mucha and Duff’s 38th minute left-foot strike which proved their first effort on target.
Lifted by the lack of imagination from the home side, Slovakia sensed an opportunity to take a grip of the game and Miroslav Stoch twice attempted to score from distance before neat inter-play between Hamsik and Vladimir Weiss resulted in Weiss forcing an important save from former Manchester City team-mate Shay Given.
Given was then forced into action again when he dived full-stretch to palm Filip Holosko’s header behind for a corner.
Ireland were hardly producing a performance that would concern Dick Advocaat’s Russians, but coach Trapattoni was compromised by limited options on the substitutes’ bench.
The Italian’s hand had already been weakened by the calf injury suffered by Shane Long in training on Friday morning which forced Trapattoni to hastily restore Kevin Doyle to the starting line-up having ruled the Wolves forward out 24 hours earlier due to concerns over his fitness.
Having performed with such lethargy during the first-half, things could surely only get better for Ireland, but while there was an early improvement, it fizzled out before many of the crowd had returned to their seats from the bars and hot dog stands.
Early signs of life from McGeady and a half-hearted attempt by Glenn Whelan to fool referee Pedro Proenca into awarding a penalty were the brief highlights before Slovakia’s superior technique and fitness returned to the fore.
Weiss, loaned from City to Espanyol earlier this week following similar spells at Bolton and Rangers, was a constant threat to the Irish, his pace and trickery tormenting Wolves full-back Stephen Ward all evening.
And the winger went close to breaking the deadlock on 56 minutes when, after being found unmarked inside the penalty area by Stoch, he sent a right-foot shot inches wide of Given’s far post.
In Weiss, Stoch and Hamsik, Slovakia possessed the game’s most impressive players, all three comfortable on the ball and whose first instinct was to go forward — a simple tactic, but frustratingly rare on an evening devoid of inspiration.
And Hamsik would have put Slovakia ahead on 60 minutes but for a desperate block by Sean St Ledger, which prevented the shot from beating Given from 12 yards.
Despite Slovakia’s dominance, Ireland rallied late in the game and when the chance fell to Keane, luck appeared to be with the home side. But it all went horribly wrong as Keane’s header sailed over the crossbar.
Qualification hopes have not gone, but they are fading.

