http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/571234/s/42549925/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cwest0Eham0C113468880CWest0EHam0EUnited0Ecult0Ehero0EAdrian0Ein0Eframe0Efor0ESpain0Efollowing0EFA0ECup0Eheroics0Eagainst0EEverton0Eat0EUpton0EPark0Bhtml/story01.htm
West Ham United cult-hero Adrian in frame for Spain following FA Cup heroics against Everton at Upton Park
By Jeremy Wilson, Deputy Football Correspondent
11:57PM GMT 14 Jan 2015
Comments
Having defiantly removed his gloves before landing the knockout punch on Everton at Upton Park on Tuesday night, Adrián simultaneously sealed West Ham United’s place in the FA Cup fourth round and his cult status among their fans.
Back in Spain, and especially his home city of Seville, momentum is now also building for Vicente del Bosque, the national team manager, to hand him one of the most unlikely international debuts of recent times.
At 28, Adrián is hardly old for a goalkeeper, but his late development at the elite level of football is fairly remarkable. He first broke into the Real Betis senior team two seasons ago when he was 25, before joining West Ham on a free transfer in the summer of 2013.
Since then, the ­heroics of the penalty shoot-out win on Tuesday, when he scored with his first serious attempt at a goal for 18 years, have been underpinned by an excellent series of performances in goal.
Iker Casillas and David de Gea remain Del Bosque’s clear first and second-choice goalkeepers but the current inactivity of Víctor Valdés at Manchester United and Pepe Reina for Bayern Munich have opened a huge opportunity ahead of Spain’s March fixtures against Ukraine and Holland.
Tottenham fight to beat Arsenal to Reid
West Ham triumph in penalty shootout thriller
West Ham v Everton: as it happened
Lazio frustrate West Ham over Morrison
The current sense in Spain is that Adrián may now have edged ahead of Espanyol’s Kiko Casilla in Del Bosque’s thinking. Del Bosque’s recent public utterances have certainly prompted hope. “Why does no one ever ask me about Adrián, the West Ham goalkeeper?” the Spain manager said during a radio interview in November.
Since then, Del Bosque, his staff and the Spanish media have been taking a particularly close interest in Adrián’s progress and Sam Allardyce, the club’s manager, has been persistently pushing his player’s case – interspersed with regular reminders of his own judgment in paying nothing for such a good player.
It is certain that Spanish ears will also listen carefully to the observations of Jose Mourinho, the Chelsea manager. “He was marvellous, just as he was marvellous last season,” Mourinho said after their match on Boxing Day.
Adrián’s display in the goalless draw against Chelsea last year was voted the performance of the season by West Ham fans and he was also named their signing of the season.
He is likely to be among the leading contenders for “player of the year” this time around.
“I am also really pleased with the way he has settled into this league and the way he has performed consistently,” Allardyce said. “That is the word. He has consistently been very, very good.”
At 6ft 3in, Adrián’s physical attributes are obvious enough, but the West Ham goalkeeper’s confidence is clearly also growing. That was evident both in the penalty shoot-out on Tuesday but also in how he dealt with questions about his possible selection to the Spanish team.
“I feel completely prepared, but I wait for the call,” he said. “I have been playing well. The league is different in Spain. As soon as somebody sticks too close to you in Spain, it is a foul and the referee stops play.
“People in Spain are talking about me playing for the national team, but all I can do is keep playing in the same way and doing my job for West Ham. I have had another good game for West Ham but the only thing that makes it special is that I scored the last penalty to get the win.”
Also special was the apparent absence of any nerves, even after 19 penalties had gone and Everton had already somehow survived, despite ­staring defeat squarely in the face on three separate occasions in the tie.
Adrián later revealed that he had only ever taken penalties while joking around with his team-mates during training.
He was, however, a winger and a striker until the age of 10, only switching to the goalkeeper position in 1997 when his under-11 team, CD Altair, lost their previous incumbent. Adrián has not moved position since.
He had never previously prepared for the prospect of being asked to score in a penalty shoot-out, but he was clearly utterly unfazed by the situation on Tuesday.
“In that moment I felt so quiet and relaxed and I didn’t have nerves,” Adrián said. “I felt a lot of confidence in myself. I thought, 'I’ll take off my gloves, this game is over’ and I struck the ball.
“I took my gloves off so quickly because I was worried that the referee might blow his whistle and give me a yellow card for time wasting. It was a crazy game for us, because they scored two goals with 10 men and it was really hard.
“Never in my life had I taken a penalty in an important game,” he said. “I have celebrated my saves before but never scoring a goal. It was my first goal in my career and it’s an amazing day for me, my team-mates, the club and the fans.
“Since I came to West Ham United, the fans have had a special relationship with me and I feel so happy.
“I think this is my best moment for the club.”
