http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/648508/s/41752f88/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cwomen0Cwomens0Elife0C11294430A0CSports0EPersonality0Eof0Ethe0EYear0E20A140EJo0EPavey0Eisnt0Ejust0Ea0Emum0Bhtml/story01.htm
Jo Pavey won gold for running, not giving birth. Did someone forget to tell the BBC?
By Rachel Halliwell
2:30PM GMT 15 Dec 2014
Comments
Congratulations to champion athlete Jo Pavey, lauded before sporting royalty last night for the following remarkable achievements: giving birth, breastfeeding and, drumroll please, still remembering how to lace up a pair of trainers.
Yes, while lesser post partum mortals were struggling to match up their shoes before heading out the door (presenter Gabby Logan’s words, not mine), 40-year-old Pavey was having and feeding a baby, as well as planning her return to running.
Wow. No wonder then that she came an impressive third in last night's BBC Sports Personality of the Year. Imagine if she’d had twins like Gabby: she’d probably have won it.
But, the fact is that runner Pavey is an incredible role model. She finally smashed the competition this year at the ripe old age of 40, becoming undisputed Queen of the track after a career of almost getting there but never quite making it.
In August, she took the bronze medal in the Commonwealth Games 5,000 metres in Glasgow; days later she brought home gold over 10,000m in the European Championships.
SPOTY 2014: This amazing woman must win
Golfers brand McIlroy's SPOTY snub 'a joke'
Women in sport: A year of success
Jo Pavey: motherhood has made me a more resilient runner
Triumph at last - some 26 years after she first made her mark on the British athletics scene, thanks to dogged determination and diehard enthusiasm.
To achieve that much - at a point in your career when you’d be forgiven for hanging up your running shoes for good - is reason enough for anyone to make the shortlist for this prestigious prize. Especially when you consider how awash athletics is right now with exciting and fresh-faced new talent.
So why, then, the repeated references to Pavey having not only given birth but also breastfed her child in the months running up to these fantastic sporting achievements?
Was she not nominated on the basis of those alone?
There were plenty of other sports personalities stood on that stage who were also parents. I don’t recall anyone suggesting that their triumphs were all the more notable for the fact that having kids might have turned their brains to mush. But then again, they were men.
BBC SPOTY: the winners
I’m not going start arguing that what happened last night was sexist: it wasn’t. But it was the patronisation of something and someone extraordinary – which I find far more insidious than sexism – that stuck in my craw.
Pavey herself has made no secret of the fact that she puts much of this late success down to the happiness that motherhood has brought her, which is to be applauded. And, as a mum of three, I know just how hard it can be to motivate yourself to do even the smallest things when they're young - let alone win a gold medal.
But did it really have to set the entire tone of the conversation? From the moment Logan gushingly introduced Pavey’s video vignette by describing her as a ‘superstar, super inspiration and super mum’ the stage was set. It was like something out of Britain’s Got Talent: ‘vote for Jo – she’s a wife, she’s mother, yet look how clever she’s been’. Is it really such a shocker that someone might become better at their job after becoming a mother?
By joking that motherhood turns most of us into blithering idiots Logan belittled the fact that so many women, like Pavey, go on to achieve great success after leaving the delivery suite.
Three times I’ve given birth; and three times I’ve gone back to work while still breastfeeding. Yes, it was knackering - there were days when I slid down walls with exhaustion and despair because I’d been up half the night with my baby and still had deadlines to meet.
Jo Pavey was patronised
But like most working women I know, motherhood – which steals time and forces you to act quickly, effectively and to let go of all but the most relevant – made me better at my job. I gained an efficiency at my desk that I imagine translates very well onto the athletics track. Or anywhere else a career-driven mother makes her crust.
Broadcaster and writer Beverley Turner was at the BBC awards last night, with her husband James Cracknell, and tells me that Pavey was last off the dance-floor at the after-party. She’s a woman who plays as hard as she works.
But Turner - while agreeing that the tone with which Pavey was addressed was, at time, uncomfortable - thinks the programme’s producers were right to focus on her as a mother.
“Giving birth is such a physical act,” she explains. “To me, Jo was there as a great advert for showing showing how spectacular women’s bodies truly are.
“It’s amazing what she did on the track – and it was right to celebrate that in the context of her being a new mum.”
I disagree. Women give birth every day of the week; many of them go on to pull on matching shoes every time they leave the house for the rest of their lives.
But a 40-year-old female runner bringing home gold from the European Championships after a career on the peripheries of stardom? Now that's what I call impressive.
