Sports Personality: Rory McIlroy snub is a travesty - he should not bother turning up again
By James Corrigan
12:30PM GMT 15 Dec 2014
Comments
At least we now can be clear that it is too dangerous to allow the public to decide upon two things - the death penalty and Sports Personality of the Year.
Golf is less annoyed and more befuddled by the Rory Mcllroy snub in the BBC “show” on Sunday. The pros who took to social media to express their bafflement at the world No 1 being outvoted by Lewis Hamilton told their own story.
Could the UK public not understand the magnitude of what McIlroy achieved in the summer? Could they not see that in that remarkable run from the Open through to the USPGA, McIlroy produced a stretch of form that was perhaps of a higher quality than any produced by any UK sports person in any era? What exactly does he have to do to win it? Invent penicillin?
Luke Donald hit the balata on the head when saying that as long as SPOTY is a public vote such farces will be replayed. Let’s face it, the public are fools when it comes to weighing up excellence. They do not judge dispassionately. If they did Hamilton would not have a sniff of beating McIlroy in a poll. And that is whether the award is based on performance or personality.
If I was McIlroy I would not bother turning up again. He does not need it, certainly not for his ego. Hamilton turned up at the Glasgow Hydro with his dog. McIlroy turned up with the responsibility of being No 1 in his sport. Golf is struggling with its participation levels and McIlroy saw an opportunity to spread the gospel to a wider audience.
Golf, not Rory McIlroy, has lost its popularity
Why Hamilton was a worthy winner of SPOTY
Golfers brand McIlroy's SPOTY snub 'a joke'
Hamilton wins SPOTY
But no, it seems that this wider audience prefers fast cars to a sport in which integrity is at its core. It seems that this wider audience do not grasp the fact that Hamilton essentially had one serious rival to beat on his way to the world title, while McIlroy had at least 70 serious rivals, as well as so many more invariables, to conquer on his way to becoming the first European golfer to win three different majors.
When McIlroy tees off at the Masters in April in his bid to become just the sixth player in history to complete the career Grand Slam he will not have superior equipment than the other golfers, he will simply have a far superior talent. No doubt, Hamilton is more talented than the rest as well. But that would mean nought if his car was not up to scratch.

So, yes, it is a disgrace that McIlroy did not win SPOTY. It is easy to see why. Golfers did not vote for him, because, well, golfers are not the type to switch on to a “show” which long ago traded in its dignity to appeal to the common denominator addicted to all that reality guff.
If you want to know how far SPOTY has descended since the days when it was an understated appreciation of the UK sporting year then look no further than Simple Minds opening the “show”. By the time the credits rolled - it has to be said, with no credit whatsoever - the booking of that band appeared so appallingly appropriate.


