Sports Personality of the Year 2014: as it happened
By Jonathan Liew
10:45PM GMT 14 Dec 2014
- Lewis Hamilton wins Sports Personality of the Year - McIlroy 2nd, Pavey 3rd - Young Sports Personality of the year: gymnast Claudia Fragapane - Coach of the Year: Paul McGinley - Team of the Year: England women's rugby union team - Overseas Sports Personality of the Year: Cristiano Ronaldo - Gallery: BBC Sports Personality of the Year shortlist - The Anti-Sports Personality awards - Poll: See who you would like to win the Sports Personality prize

WRAP: So there we are. It's not been a vintage year for British sport, unless it took place on snow or ice. Golf fans will naturally be up in arms, and for more reasons than one - Paul McGinley a coach, anyone? But there was real warmth for Lewis Hamilton: a genuine guy who perhaps needs our love a little more than he lets on. And whatever you think of the result, I'm sure we can all agree on one thing: thank god it's all over for another year. Thanks for reading, goodnight!

22.38 Ian Poulter's not having this. He's mad as hell and he's not going to take this any more.
Golfers brand McIlroy's SPOTY snub 'a joke'
Golf, not Rory McIlroy, has lost its popularity
<noframe>Twitter: Ian Poulter - Obsolutely ridiculous that <a href="http://www.twitter.com/McIlroyRory" target="_blank">@McIlroyRory</a> has not won Sports Personality 2014. Huge respect to <a href="http://www.twitter.com/LewisHamilton" target="_blank">@LewisHamilton</a> but come on.</noframe>
22.33 Hamilton's the first motorsport winner since Damon Hill in 1996. He's the first non-white winner since 2004. And whatever you think of Formula One, he wasn't born into a mililionaire's penthouse in Monaco. He started out in a council estate in Stevenage. I mean, Stevenage.
22.31 Right, everyone. Let's never speak of any of this again.
22.30 Let the backlash begin...
<noframe>Twitter: Michael Vaughan - Not having that at all.... <a href="http://www.twitter.com/McIlroyRory" target="_blank">@McIlroyRory</a> should have won ...</noframe>
22.29 Lewis is in "humble" mode tonight. "I want to say a huge thank you to all the people that called it. I really was not expecting it. I couldn't have done it without my amazing team. My dad who had four jobs just to get me go-karting, and never gave up on me."

22.28 First person complaining Formula One isn't a real sport in 3... 2... 1...
22.27 And the winner is... LEWIS HAMILTON.
22.26 Second place... Rory McIlroy. Shock!
22.26 Third place... Jo Pavey.
22.25 Right. So. Here we are. A mere six to eight months after we started, we're going to find out who's going to win. Kenny Dalglish and Jonny Wilkinson to present the main award.
22.24 He's still going. For a man who based his entire career on speed, Chris Hoy really does go on a bit.
22.23 OK this is very nice but CAN YOU PLEASE GET ON WITH IT NOW.
22.22 "When I was growing up," Hoy says, "I thought sporting chapions were just born sporting champions. I thought they were a different breed to the rest of us. But with hard graft, you can achieve amazing things."

22.19 Naturally, we're running a bit late. The main award was supposed to be announced at 22.16. And most of those extra minutes have gone into the standing ovation for Sir Chris Hoy, which was really quite something. He's on the verge of tears.
22.18 Matt Law, as usual, is spot on.
<noframe>Twitter: Matt Law - Sports Personality of Year has basically highlighted that British women have massively outperformed men this year. Women's sport v strong</noframe>
22.17 It is, of course, the Honourable, Most Esteemed, Right Reverend, Lord Sir Chris Hoy!
22.16 Lifetime achievement award time. "Here in Glasgow, there's a velodrome named in his honour," Clare Balding announces. Load it with suspense, why don't you?
22.15 Sad violin music now accompanies a montage of all the sporting people who died over the last year. Tito Vilanova, Dessie Hughes, Sir Tom Finney, Jack Brabham, Chris Chataway, Alfredo di Stefano, Elena Baltacha, Malcolm Glazer, Eusebio, and many others. And, of course, Phillip Hughes.
22.10 Bale hands over the award to Ronaldo in a pre-recorded segment. "Thank you to all my fans in England," Ronaldo says with a distinct lack of tears. "Have a good night."

22.08 They're really pounding through these awards now. It's time for the Overseas Sports Personality of the Year now... and it goes to Cristiano Ronaldo. Ronaldo hasn't found out yet, but he's already in tears about it.
22.05 And the winner is... the England women's rugby union team!
22.04 Time for the Team of the Year award, and your nominees are:
England women's rugby union team Europe Ryder Cup team Mercedes Formula One team Great Britain and Northern Ireland athletics team
22.03 The greatest ever Sports Personality? Mike Boddy has this to say.
"Greatest ever by a country mile. Genuinely the best performer in his discipline (without the use of illegal substances, a four-legged friend or an engine). He was able to make light of his event and himself and his achievements. And he was very humble with it. Daley Thompson."
22.02 Cricket is dispensed with in the space of about 45 seconds. The segment naturally ends with Phillip Hughes, who died last month at the age of 25. "Yes, very sad," Gary Lineker says, before segue-ing a trifle awkwardly into a segment about the Brazil World Cup.
21.59 McGinley receives the award with the sort of management-seminar dignity that's characterised him throughout the whole of the last two years. He thanks his players, which is probably about right.

21.58 And it's Paul McGinley!
21.57 Coach of the Year award now. Nominees: Bill Furniss (GB swimming), Paul McGinley, Rob McCracken (Carl Froch), Gary Street (England women's rugby).
21.55 A tribute to the England's women rugby union team, who won the World Cup this year.
21.50 No mention of cricket yet. Zero. We're back on rugby, and a rerun of the Six Nations in the company of Brian O'Driscoll.
21.48 The Unsung Hero is in fact Jill Stidever, who for nearly 60 years has been teaching thousands of children with special needs to swim in Leicestershire. Or rather, she's been teaching children from Leicestershire with special needs to swim, they don't do coach parties or anything. She seems like a superb woman. Well done her.
21.46 Here's Rob Brown on his greatest ever SPOTY:
"My winner would be Valentino Rossi. Who quite ironically has never won International Sports Personality. Because of the totally closed shop system that is used to decide who is a candidate. There is no bigger personality in any sport than Valentino Rossi, in my opinion."
Hey, nobody's a big fan of Valentino Rossi than me, but I'm not sure silent movie stars count as sports personalities, do they?
21.45 The Unsung Hero award goes to what's-her-name.
21.44 Time for the Unsung Hero award. Eddie Izzard and Libby Clegg on stage to present it.
21.37 So while you all get voting/make a cup of tea/question your will to live, we're treated to another musical interlude, this time from Jess Glynne, a native of that well-known Glasgow suburb of Muswell Hill.
21.34 Alan Mason emails in:
"Hello Jonathan. To me, the problem has often been that the winner often doesn't have a personality; Nigel Mansell and David Beckham were cases in point. As for the best - can't remember most of them to be honest."
21.32 Voting lines are now open! If you call now, your vote may not make a blind bit of difference, but you will still be charged.
21.31 Paul McGinley, Stephen Gallacher and Jamie Donaldson now on stage talking about the Ryder Cup. Jamie Donaldson, and this has only just occurred to me, always has the slightly flushed look of a man who was in the shower exactly eight minutes ago.

21.27 You know how hard it is to win a major golf tournament? There's about 150 people in it, and on their day any single one of them could produce the round of their life, and there's nothing you can do about it. You can play 71 perfect holes and if you nark up the last, that's the ball game. That's why some great golfers go their whole lives without winning one. Rory McIlroy won two. This year. And he played in a winning Ryder Cup team. In the closest I'm going to get to being nice to someone tonight, it would not be an entirely bad thing if he won.
21.22 Remember when the BBC used to go on about horse racing for about 15 minutes at these things? Now it's on Channel 4, it's dispensed with in about 15 seconds. Anyway, to a sport the BBC still have some of: golf. Rory McIlroy!
21.21 It's time for para-skier Kelly Gallagher and guide Charlotte Evans. I wonder how able-bodied people feel about competing in para-sport events. I imagine they feel a little bit like my mum did when she used to park in the Mother and Child parking spaces at Tesco. Technically she wasn't doing anything wrong, but as I was 23 years old, maybe it wasn't quite in the spirit of things.
21.18 Meanwhile, in a parallel universe:
<noframe>Twitter: George Groves - Good fun on <a href="http://www.twitter.com/SoccerAM" target="_blank">@SoccerAM</a> this morning with <a href="http://www.twitter.com/danshittu" target="_blank">@danshittu</a> <a href="http://www.twitter.com/RachelRileyRR" target="_blank">@RachelRileyRR</a> and the guys! And... I scored!</noframe>
21.14 Froch, for all his mean-guy act, is actually a pretty humble, impressive fella. And it's nights like this he proves it. "I'm not the most talented fighter, the most skilful fighter, I'll be the first to admit that," he says. "But I refuse to quit, and that's why I'm standing here tonight."
21.12 Here's Carl Froch, who is also unbelievably badass. He's introduced with a voiceover from Let's Get Ready To Rumblllllle Man, which you also paid for.
21.11 Seriously though. Does literally anyone involved with the organisation of this event have the faintest idea what they're doing?
21.10 Rugby now. And a nice tribute to Sam Burgess - almost as good as nominating him for an actual award, I suppose.
21.06 A long feature about the Invictus Games, featuring lots of heroic soldiers, and lots and lots of mentions of the word "inspiring". At the end of which, several dozen soldiers take the stage and are awarded the first standing ovation of the night, because if you don't stand up when soldiers are being honoured you're probably a traitor or an immigrant or something, and you'll be ill-spoken of in the village. Spot the man in this row of people being made to stand up under social duress.

21.00 The second award tonight - and there are still seven to go - is the Helen Rollason Award. It's for regular amazing grassroots sporting heroes, who will automatically be overshadowed by whichever celebrity happens to be presenting the award. This year: Prince Harry!

20.58 Why is it only female athletes who get asked about their families? "How important has their support been?" "How much have your kids inspired you?" Rather than the only correct question to ask Jo Pavey, which is: "How did you become so unbelievably badass?"
20.56 It's the irrepressible long-distance runner Jo Pavey up now. "She was breastfeeding up until sometime in April," her husband says. "The first race was some time in May."
All right, all right. The Daily Mail are probably already laying out their "BBC In Pre-Watershed Breastfeeding Scandal" front page as we speak.
20.53 Turns out we're not the only country doing this tonight...
<noframe>Twitter: Stanislas Wawrinka - You can call for me 0901544920! <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23sportsawards" target="_blank">#sportsawards</a></noframe>
I'd vote Stan Wawrinka. I'd vote him over all 10 of our nominees. Actually, I'd probably vote Stan Wawrinka for Parliament.
20.52 "He's not just a horse, he's my best friend. To have that relationship with an animal is fantastic." No, not a line from a Channel Four documentary, it's Dujardin on her world-beating horse Valegro.
20.49 Charlotte Dujardin next. Big question tonight: is she posh enough to grab the Princess Anne vote?
20.44 Lineker's excellent at these occasions. He punctures them ever so lightly. "What's Nico Rosberg like?" he asks Lewis Hamilton with a wink. "He's a bit of a pain, really, isn't he?"
Now say what you like about Jake Humphrey, but there's no way he asks Lewis Hamilton that.
"We've known each other since I was 13," Hamilton replies. "Of course this year it's been tough, but we've grown and got through. And we had bosses that allowed us to race."
20.43 Gary Lineker really needs to go to bed. He's got the voice of a man about to tell his only son about the gold buried under the lawn.
20.40 Just before that award came some very random and really quite awful comedy Polyfilla from a stuffed dog. Apparently he's off one of the CBBC shows. He went on about Sue Barker for a bit and then disappeared. You all paid for this.

You all paid for this.
20.38 Young Sports Personality of the Year: gymnast Claudia Fragapane. Well done her.
20.37 They've only brought Scottie dogs with them. Obviously they also played The Proclaimers. This country.

20.36 Time for our first award of the night: Young Sports Personality of the Year. Presenting it: Nicola Adams and Ross Murdoch, and... oh no. Oh no.
20.34 Exceptional shoe game from young Adam. If there were an award for Shoe-Wearing Sports Personality Of The Year*, he'd win it, no question.

*I had to check there wasn't.
20.30 Swimming now. Adam Peaty, perhaps the least well-known of tonight's nominees. He's 19, he does the breaststroke, and in his own words, he "loves to win".
20.28 Eyyyyyyyyyyy...
<noframe>Twitter: Jim White - It's a race to see what goes first this evening: Gary Lineker's voice or Brendan Rodgers</noframe>
20.27 Whitlock is speaking. He's generally happy about stuff.
20.24 Max Whitlock next, and we catch up with him at his gym. "This is what I do," he says, "and I love it. Six days a week, seven hours a day, I'm in there."
And to be fair, the dedication of these athletes really does... hang on. Seven hours a day? Seven? Is he unionised?
20.23 Gary Lineker asks Bale if his Spanish lessons are going well. In Spanish. Bale, slightly taken aback, answers: "Si." Which is technically a Spanish word, so good to see those 16 months in Madrid haven't been entirely wasted.
20.22 What on earth are those things in Gareth Bale's ears?

20.19 Time for Gareth Bale, who's being interviewed from Madrid over a live video link.
20.18 First of the 10 nominees being profiled: skeleton's Lizzy Yarnold. "This was it. It was the moment of my life," she says. It's full of posed, slightly album-cover style shots like this.

Actually... let's give it a go...

Much better.
20.12 Pack. Definitely pack.
<noframe>Twitter: PSD - To pack or watch SPOTY?</noframe>
20.09 There's a crowd of 12,000 inside the SSE Hydro. We're now being treated to a review of the Winter Olympics. Say what you like about Sports Personality, but this is the night when montage-makers really earn their money.
20.06 "You might be having a SPOTY party at home..." Clare Balding begins. Is anybody actually doing that?
20.05 Your hosts: Gabby Logan, Gary Lineker and Clare Balding. Lineker appears to have a sore throat.
20.04 "Show your appreciation for one of Scotland's greatest bands, Simple Minds."
There were members of the audience literally shaking their heads.
20.02 And we begin with... Simple Minds! OK.

19.59 Right. We're ready. Are you ready? Is everyone ready? Thank heavens for that.
19.50 We're 10 minutes away from the start. Just about time to go and make yourself a cup of xylazine.
19.45 Let's recap the 10 nominees (part 2)
Cheeky Golf Fella won all the golf this year, including the Ryder Cup which is strictly speaking a team event but everybody knows who really won it. Plus he dumped his girlfriend over the phone, which makes him a LAD.
Mum On The Run shocked the world by winning the European title despite being both 40 years old and a mother, conditions previously thought to be fatal.
The Tadpole had a wonderful year in the swimming pool, firmly establishing himself as the world's best breaststroke swimmer, as long as you restrict your definition of the world to "Europe and the countries of the former British Empire".
Flexi-Man had a similarly successful year to The Tadpole, jumping and somersaulting his way to a clutch of gold medals. Also, he is really cute.
Face-First Slidey Woman goes very quickly down a hill on ice, and indeed went so quickly this year that they gave her a gold medal for it.
Who should have been on the list? Who shouldn't have been on the list? Should there be a list? What's your favourite list? Are we all doomed as a species? Drop us an email.
19.40 We've got a reader! Most alarmingly of all, they've emailed! John McEnerney, the floor is yours:
"Evening Jonathan, if it was all-time, a tie between Sir Steven Redgrave & Lord Coe. Overseas award, another tie: Seve, Federer & Usain Bolt. Team award: Europe Ryder Cup team 2012 & The 1970 & 74 British & Irish Lions. Enjoy the night man!"
Thanks, John. Run. Run far.
19.35 If, like me, you are black to your very core, then you'll enjoy the anti-Sports Personality awards, featuring the year's most dastardly sporting villains.
19.30 Let's recap the 10 nominees (part 1).
Fast Welsh Football Man won the Champions League with Real Madrid, and even though he did virtually none of his actual football in Britain, wasn't by any stretch of the imagination the best player in their team, the Welsh would get well stroppy if you left him out.
Horse Dancey Woman won everything there is to win in horse dancing, which is definitely a proper thing. Still, the Home Counties need a hero, and there's every chance that Horse Dancey Woman could emulate the feat of HRH Horse Jumpy Woman in 2006.
Angry Punch Man retained his world title by beating his younger rival Angry Punch Boy in front of several thousand people at Wembley.
Partially-Sighted Ski Woman and All-Seeing Ski Guide won gold medals at the Winter Paralympics, which is definitely also a proper thing. Will they split the Northern Ireland vote? Probably not.
In a heartwarming story of triumph against the odds, Vroom Vroom Man, a multi-millionaire tax exile driving a 200mph car, overcame insurmountable challenges to win the world championship, including beating the only other person driving the same car as him.
19.10 Ben Rumsby is in Glasgow for the Telegraph tonight. I'd say he's drawn the short straw, but Glasgow's a brilliant place, so not really.
<noframe>Twitter: Ben Rumsby - At the <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23SPOTY2014" target="_blank">#SPOTY2014</a> awards in Glasgow. Lewis Hamilton turns up dressed in what looks like a purple velvet suit and with a bulldog. <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23pimp" target="_blank">#pimp</a></noframe>
19.05 Lewis Hamilton has brought his dog Roscoe onto the red carpet.

"He is loving our coverage," interviewer Lee McKenzie enthuses.
This is a strong portent of the night to come.
18.30 Hi! Good evening! How are you? There's no doubt that 2014 has been an amazing year of British sporting achievement, and tonight, at the magnificent SSE Hydro Arena in Glasgow, we're going to celebrate it. Ten fantastic nominees, with ten inspiring stories of sporting triumph over adversity, but ultimately only one of them can walk away with one of the most famous trophies in sport: the fabled BBC...
I'm sorry, I can't do this.
I'll start again.
It's been a frankly upsetting year, not just for British sport, not just for sport in general, but for pretty much everyone. Our footballers are useless, our cricketers are useless, our rugby players are useless, our only good tennis player will probably never win anything of worth ever again, and this was the year even Britain's traditional dominance of the Tour de France was brought to an abrupt halt. Our football clubs are either owned by homicidal foreigners or racist Englishmen, we're brilliant at building huge sporting stadiums but not so good at knowing what to do with them, and we've achieved pariah status within most of the world's sporting bodies. Nonetheless, like snorkellers foraging for gold in a stinking peat bog, we're contractually and culturally obliged to celebrate the few things we did get right, and then clap loudly as if we're the greatest sporting nation in the world.
What was once a pleasant Sunday evening called Sports Review of the Year is now a full-blown, celebrified faff extravaganza, complete with red carpet (live on the BBC website), pounding pop, cloying pathos, live music from Simple Minds, and the inevitable and superfluous appearance of our armed forces at some stage of the evening. So strap yourself in for five hours of contemptible hyperbole and microwaved platitudes, scripted and stage-managed by a PR agency who's probably earning more money for this bash than you've ever seen in your life.
Feel free to drop us an email!
17.00 Hello and welcome to what promises to be an enthralling night of sporting entertainment - but only if you read this live blog. Jonathan Liew will be here from 6.30pm to give you his take on proceedings and, let's face it, that's going to be better than anything live television can throw at you.
While we wait for Jonny's arrival, here's a look at the 10 shortlisted stars who have been competing for your votes...
Rory McIlroy (2/5) - McIlroy swept all before him in 2014, winning back-to-back majors at the Open and the USPGA and helping Europe retain the Ryder Cup. In addition, the Northern Ireland star won a world golf title and the BMW PGA at Wentworth to cement his place as world number one.
Lewis Hamilton (7/4) - A two-time runner-up in the Sports Personality voting, Hamilton got the better of Mercedes team-mate Nico Rosberg to win his second Formula One title in dramatic fashion in Abu Dhabi. Should he take the award, he would become the first motor racing winner since Damon Hill.
Gareth Bale (33/1) - Bale capped a superb first season at Real Madrid by scoring the second goal in extra time to help see off city rivals Atletico in the Champions League final in May. He finished his debut season with 22 goals and has maintained his form into his second campaign.
Jo Pavey (40/1) - The indefatigable Pavey rose to the occasion in Zurich where she won the women's 10,000metres to become the oldest female European champion in history at 40 years and 325 days - a statistic made more remarkable by the fact it came just 10 months after giving birth to her second child.
Charlotte Dujardin (80/1) - After her double Olympic gold in 2012, Dujardin continued to conquer all before her on the dressage circuit as she scooped two gold medals and a silver at the European Dressage Championships in Herning, Denmark.
Lizzy Yarnold (100/1) - Yarnold proved untouchable on the world skeleton circuit, finishing top of the rankings in the World Cup season before powering to gold at the Winter Olympics in Sochi in February. She started the new World Cup season with another victory in Lake Placid this week.
Carl Froch (100/1) - Froch starred in front of the biggest British boxing crowd since the Second World War at Wembley Stadium in May. More than 80,000 fans watched him clatter George Groves to an eighth-round defeat toretain his world super-middleweight title in emphatic fashion.
Kelly Gallagher & Charlotte Evans (guide) (100/1) - Northern Ireland skier Gallagher was crowned Great Britain's first Winter Paralympic champion in Sochi in February after teaming up with Evans to take gold in the women's visually impaired Super G.
Adam Peaty (100/1) - Peaty enjoyed a glorious year in the pool as he won two gold medals at the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow before moving on to sweep the board at the European Championships in Berlin with four breaststroke and medley titles.
Max Whitlock (100/1) - Whitlock's busy year began with three golds each at the European Championships and the Commonwealth Games before moving on to the World Championships where he defied injury to take a brilliant silver medal in the men's all-around competition.
As you've probably worked out by now, it seems this year will be a straight shoot-put between Rory McIlroy and Lewis Hamilton - multiple major winner versus F1 world champion. But if you're with your mates down the pub waiting for SPOTY to come on and arguing who is most deserving of the two, our Chief Sports Writer, Paul Hayward, has delivered a compelling argument...
The bookies have this right, morally, because McIlroy must win in a year when he won two majors and was a growing inspiration to Europe's Ryder Cup team at Gleneagles. If he were to win the Masters at Augusta in April he would become only the sixth golfer to win all four majors.
At 25, he is the phenomenon everyone hoped he would be when he emerged from Irish club golf as a loose, natural, instinctive artist with clubs. He has set all sorts of traps for himself in relationship, management and PR terms, but overcome them all.
Unlike Hamilton, his equipment counted massively against him, until he overcame his switch to Nike gear.
You want a simple summary of his year or so? Here it comes: prodigy, gets distracted, splits up with fiancé, retreats to gym, comes out ripped, realises at last that his talent is the basis of everything. Sees, at last, that he can dominate an infernally hard game simply by protecting and applying his gift.
Hamilton is quick, but in this race McIlroy goes gliding past.

