Paul Hayward's review of the sporting year 2014: part two
By Paul Hayward, Chief Sports Writer
10:00AM GMT 20 Dec 2014
Comments
Five great events
The World Cup: saved from the clutches of Fifa and Brazilian politics by intrepid fans and inspired players, who shook off end-of-season fatigue to make it a carnival of attacking football. Infectious and engrossing from the start.
Commonwealth Games: another organizational triumph for a British city. England finished top of the medals table with 174 medals, 58 of them gold. Eccentric and exciting from the off, whatever Usain Bolt thought.
Winter Olympics: the main event – allegedly ransacking the construction budget – soon gave way to some vibrant sport, with a gold for Lizzy Yarnold.
Ryder Cup: Europe are now so dominant that the USA have turned to Tiger Woods, one of the worst American players in the competition’s history, for advice on how to raise their game. European success has become self-replicating. Welcome to the new Boot Room.
The alternative sporting heroes of 2014
43 reasons why we loved sport in 2014
A year of scandals, silly money and sackings
The Tour de France in Yorkshire attracted 2.5m spectators and proved again our willingness to support big events. As the BBC reported: “The route passed through Harrogate, Keighley, and Huddersfield before reaching Sheffield, taking in areas made famous by the Bronte sisters and TV series Last Of The Summer Wine.” Compo and Cleggy had to be in there somewhere.

A church in Ilkley sports a yellow jersey (GETTY IMAGES)
Great victories
The most important section in any review, since few love sport for the politics, the scandals and the insults. Top billing belongs to the magnificent Germany side who became the first from Europe to win a World Cup on the American continents. Staking their claim from the start by blowing away Portugal in their opening match, Joachim Löw’s strong and skillful side destroyed Brazil 7-1 in the semi-final and then needed to beat the other South American heavyweight, Argentina, to win the world title after extra-time. From the nadir of Euro 2000 to the rhapsody of Rio was, as one writer observed, a triumph of “intelligent design”.

Tears of a clown (hat) (AFP)
Real Madrid’s obsession with the “decima” (the 10th European Cup) may have become tedious for fans of other clubs but it lent extra edge to the all-Madrid Champions League final in Lisbon, where Gareth Bale was among the scorers in a 4-1 Real win. Satisfyingly, Atlético were rewarded for a season of fierce endeavour with a first La Liga title since 1996. Spain’s capital blew a giant raspberry at Barcelona.
Arsenal won their first trophy in nine years, beating Hull 3-2 in the FA Cup final. It felt like a turning point. Then normal service resumed. But it was good to see Arsène Wenger happy and dancing like a dad at a wedding.
Wembley was a cauldron again when Carl Froch hit George Groves with a punch that could be felt down in Hammersmith, Groves’ manor. A crowd of 80,000 saw confirmation that the apprentice was nowhere near ready to usurp the master. Not a great British fight, as it turned out, but a great and haunting finish.

Carl Froch stops George Groves (ACTION IMAGES)
Winning the Open, the US PGA and the Ryder Cup while rising to World No1 was not sufficient to persuade BBC viewers to elect Rory McIlroy Sports Personality of the Year ahead of Lewis Hamilton, the Formula One champion, who claimed his second title at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix. McIlroy left the BBC ceremony undiminished. The same could not be said of the award.

Rory McIlroy poses with the Claret Jug (PA)
Jo Pavey winning gold at 40 for Great Britain in the women's 10,000 metres at the European Championships in Zurich was a major defeat for the ravages of middle-age. And a glorious moment for Pavey.

Jo Pavey's patriotic parade (PA)
England’s victory in the Women’s Rugby World Cup was an inspiring tale of people playing sport for the love of it but also wanting to extract every ounce of their own talent. Women’s sport took a great leap forward in 2014, and the 21-9 win over Canada in Paris served notice that women’s rugby is going places. To professionalism and popularity, mainly.
Scandals
Deep breath. Scandal time. Where else to start than with the epic charade of Fifa and the 2018 and 2022 World Cup bids, which moved on another step this week when Michael Garcia, the ethics gumshoe, resigned in protest at the handling of his report.
You may remember the day when Fifa president Sepp Blatter declared that corruption allegations around Qatar 2022 were driven by "discrimination and racism".
Since then we have seen a heavily redacted summary which managed to put the boot into England’s 2018 bid for its deeply unhealthy relationship with the disgraced Jack Warner but otherwise declared: there is nothing to see here.
Football Association chairman Greg Dyke, who brought a free £16,000 watch home from a Fifa Congress only this summer, called Garcia’s report “a joke” while Fifa tried the novel trick of reporting itself to the Swiss attorney general - in the hope, probably, that the already-disgraced might get disgraced all over again, leaving the rest of Fifa to sail on unaffected.
Unless the FBI and other law enforcement agencies really take up the fight there is no hope of an honourable outcome to this dystopia.
One person chewing on another’s shoulder sounds like the daily staff report from a nursery school until you throw in the name of Luis Suárez, at which point it becomes a global news sensation.
Suárez was banned for nine international matches and suspended from all football for four months after biting Italy’s Giorgio Chiellini at the World Cup. A specialist in swerving runs, Suárez attempted a series of dummies and sidesteps in his defence before realizing that only an apology would make the world shut up.

Giorgio Chiellini shows where he was bitten (REUTERS)
He then chewed his way out of his Liverpool contract to join Barcelona.
Not a scandal, maybe, but certainly a farce. There was some common sense in The Football Association's England Commission but there was also a plan to feed Premier League B teams into the Football League, which the Football League immediately disowned, despite having its own chairman on the Commission. This scheme has been kicked into grass so long that it tickles your nose.
The Ched Evans affair displayed the power of public opinion to stop football clubs dressing self-interest up as a desire to rehabilitate offenders. Until the legal process is finally exhausted, Evans, who protests his innocence, is not a straightforward case, though his status as a convicted rapist is established legal fact.
This did not deter the sociopaths who threatened Jessica Ennis-Hill with rape on Twitter after she objected to his return to Sheffield United, who withdrew their invitation to let him train with the club. This is a pause rather than a resolution.
Vanessa Mae was banned for four years by the International Ski Federation for taking part in races which were fixed to help her qualify for the Sochi 2014 Winter Olympics. Yes, Vanessa Mae, the violinist. What a fiddle.
Brighton and Hove always had a seedy side but nobody expected match-fixing to come to the County Ground, that idyll by the sea. Former Sussex players Lou Vincent and Naved Arif were banned for life from all forms of cricket. Corruption seemed to run through the game like the word in a stick of rock.
Finally the IAAF doping scandal appears to have restored East German style collusion to track and field, this time in Russia. A nice blockbuster to end the year.
Defeats
Before the internal feud could start England had to turn a 3-0 summer win into a 5-0 winter wipe-out: a rout that was completed with a 281-run Australia victory in the fifth Test in Sydney. Thus ended a broadly successful era for English cricket. Hubris did much of the damage. Mitchell Johnson did the rest.
Scotland’s dismal 20-0 defeat by England on a threadbare pitch at Murrayfield prompted your correspondent to suggest that the Scots should be threatened with demotion from the Six Nations Championship unless they started taking it seriously. This proposal was rapturously received north of the border, as you can imagine.
Arsène Wenger turned up at Stamford Bridge for his 1,000th game as Arsenal manager on the back of many a fond appraisal of his time in charge of the Gunners. It was a chance for the industry to acknowledge a great statesman and innovator. Result: Chelsea 6, Arsenal 0.
Liverpool’s seemingly inexorable return to the summit for the first time since 1990 ended when Jose Mourinho warned his Chelsea players at Anfield: “They want us to be the clowns in the circus.” The 11 Cocos sat back, allowed Liverpool’s traditional attacking dervish to blow itself out, then exploited a slip by Steven Gerrard to win 2-0. Days later Liverpool blew a 3-0 lead at Crystal Palace to open the gate still further to Manchester City.
The sun set on the greatest of all international teams when Spain were knocked out of the World Cup at the group stage. Brazil, in 1970, remain the bench mark for skill and power, but Spain’s back to back wins in European Championship (2008), World Cup (2010) and European Championship (2012) is beyond compare. Bless them for the memories.
The sun never rose on England. Roy Hodgson’s young squad were knocked out in Brazil eight days after the World Cup started. The nemesis: Luis Suárez, with his two goals for Uruguay. Among many bizarre oversights, Ronnie Biggs was not consulted on how to stick around in Rio.

Steven Gerrard played his last game for England (PA)
While the world was preoccupied with events in Brazil, world No1 Rafael Nadal was knocked out of Wimbledon in the fourth-round by world number 144 Nick Kyrgios, a 19-year-old Australian.
Reigning champion Andy Murray fell in straight sets to Grigor Dimitrov. The cry went up: “Anyone for football?”
Brazil 1 Germany 7. Estimated cost to Brazil of staging 2014 World Cup: $12 billion.
Heartbreaks
The ending of Andy Murray’s two-year partnership with coach Ivan Lendl was more than a professional severance. It tipped Murray into a swirl of doubt and introspection. Later Britain’s No1 appointed France's two-time grand slam winner Amélie Mauresmo as Lendl’s replacement as the first of several major changes to his backroom staff. His win in the Shenzen Open in September this year was his first since Wimbledon in 2013.

Andy Murray and Amelie Mauresmo (PA)
Rory McIlroy’s break-up with Caroline Wozniacki was such big news that people wondered whether he would withdraw from the BMW PGA Championship (the wedding invitations had already been dispatched). Instead McIlroy came from seven shots behind to claim victory. He sought refuge from his pain in the gym - as well as two major wins and the Ryder Cup.
Neymar’s back injury at the World Cup sent Brazil into a frenzy of remembrance for the semi-final against Germany, with David Luiz clutching the magician’s No10 shirt and weeping during the anthems in Belo Horizonte. Memo to footballers: games are not won by players who are not on the pitch. Brazil played the emotion card – and conceded seven.
Chris Froome withdrew from the Tour de France after a series of crashes, thus ending Sky’s dominance in the race. The good times stopped for British road cycling fans.
In a terrible year for British boxers – outside the ring – Kell Brook was stabbed, Jamie Moore shot and Anthony Crolla hit on the head with a paving stone by burglars. If only the Marquess of Queensberry rules could be extended to violent crime.
Mortality reminders
Michael Schumacher’s ski-ing accident has left the news bulletins but not the nightmares of Formula One fans, or indeed the world beyond. Schumacher’s superhuman sheen helped him to seven F1 world titles but was no defence against the dangers of the slopes. His precise status at home is unknown but his days of speed are clearly over.
Jules Bianchi’s crash into a recovery crane at the Japanese Grand Prix in October was the most serious since the death of Ayrton Senna in 1994. His chances of recovery remain unclear.
The departed
Among many great losses in 2014…
Sir Tom Finney of England and Preston North End died at the age of 91.
Elena Baltacha, 30, former British tennis No 1, lost her fight against liver cancer.
Alfredo Di Stefano, the great Real Madrid striker, died two days after a cardiac arrest. He was 88.
Phillip Hughes, 25, died two days after being struck on the head by a bouncer at the Sydney Cricket Ground. He was 63 not out, and always will be.
Reeva Steenkamp was killed by Oscar Pistorius on Valentine’s Day 2013, and in September this year the Olympic and Paralympic ‘Blade Runner’ was found guilty of culpable homicide after a trial that gripped the world. Steenkamp’s death was the real tragedy, not the five-year sentence for Pistorius or the loss of his sporting lustre: meaningless, by comparison.

