Apple Watch starts at $349; battery lasts a full day | ZDNet
The mysteries surrounding Apple's new wearable are over. At the Yerba Buena Center in San Francisco, Apple revealed what future watch-wearers had been wanting to know for months: when it was going to be available, how much it would cost, and what comes with it. If you need a refresher, the Apple Watch is one of (if not the) most customizable product the company has made, with three different base models, two sizes, and half-a-dozen different watch colors and strap bands. The models come with a range of apps, including many that mirror what's on the iPhone (including Contacts, Maps, and Music), along with its voice-activated assistant Siri. It also works with Apple Pay, the company's own contactless payments service, and a health monitor with two dedicated apps.Other apps, including enterprise-focused apps from Salesforce, will land on the new wearable. Twitter, Uber, and WeChat, along with hundreds of other apps, can be added.One of the crucial questions, however, was battery life. Apple said the watch will have "all day" battery life. (Cook said the wearable will last around 18 hours of life before it requires charging.)The lowest base model, the Apple Watch Sport (38-millimeter, with the aluminum band) will cost $349. The 42-millimeter version comes in at $399.The mid-range Apple Watch begins at $549 for the 38-millimeter version, and $599 for the 42-millimeter version. (Prices can range up to $1,049 depending on bands). The gold Apple Watch Edition starts at $10,000, and will be available in limited numbers at select retail stores.Cook said preorders begin April 10, and availability begins two weeks later on April 24. | Image 1 of 16 Apple has finally released its newest product line – the Apple Watch. This, the company claims, it its most personal device to date. Let's take a look at what this new product has to offer.See also:The Apple Watch comes in three different varieties:Comes in two sizes:Comes in two sizes:Priced from $10K rising to a whopping $17,000 depending on the band, the Apple Watch Edition will be available from selected outlets.The aluminum used to make Apple Watch Sport is 60 percent stronger than standard alloys, while the stainless steel used to make the cases is up to 80 percent harder through a specialized cold-forging process.Apple is saying that the Apple Watch has an 18-hour battery life, which means nightly charging using the snap-on inductive charger.No word on how much real-world usage users can expect from the device.The Apple Watch will be available for pre-order and preview from April 10 in the following territories, with the product starting to ship April 24:The Apple Watch is not a standalone device, and needs an iPhone to work its magic. In fact, it offloads much of the hard work onto the iPhone in order to extend battery life.The Apple Watch will feature a highly-customizable face, allowing it to display a wide range of information.The Apple Watch puts a lot of emphasis on health and fitness, with motion trackers that monitor your movements and a heartrate monitor to keep an eye on that side of things.... all from your wrist! You can finally talk to your wristwatch!Wearers will also be able to send and receive iMessages, as well as emails and communications from other apps.The Apple watch introduces novel communications methods using sketches and even sending heartbeats.The Apple Watch leverages Siri so you can dictate messages, create appointments and much more. This means that you don't have to peck away at a microscopic keyboard!Apple has integrated the convenience of Apple Pay directly into the Apple Watch, making it even easier to use.With the Apple Watch wearers will be able to show boarding passes, hail cabs using Uber, unlock hotel doors, scroll through Instagram and much more.
