Crowdfunded small biz tech which should be showcased at CES 2015
| Image 1 of 10

iPocket Drive is a USB hard drive with integrated Apple Lightning connector that doubles the storage on iPhones. The USB hard drive works with iPhone, iPad and iTouch.
It supports all common file formats. Up to 128 Gb storage is available. BYOD workers can easily transfer data from one device to another whilst on the road.
(Image: iPocket/Indiegogo)

Everykey is a wearable device to enable you to access everything that requires a physical key or password. The Bluetooth wristband gives access to a password-protected electronics such as devices, locked doors, and other controlled access devices using AES 128 bit encryption.
When the wristband is within range the password can be bypassed or the door can be unlocked. Users can be logged into their online accounts when they are close to one of their devices. When out of range, the device automatically re-enables security.
Everykey utilizes military grade encryption, allowing only you access to your personal property and accounts. Like a credit card, you can instantly disable your Everykey if it ever gets lost or stolen.
(Image: Everkey/Kickstarter)

The 101Touch keyboard uses an emulator to work on any device, including MS-DOS, Windows, Linux, OS X and BIOS without any installation and setup. Customized keyboards and layouts can be created to suit your particular task - useful for task based workers with structured work.
You can search and install different keyboards. The keyboard can dynamically change its configuration with a keystroke.
(Image: 101 touch/Kickstarter)

The KeyMouse is a compact high speed Bluetooth 3.0 keyboard and mouse. The mouse can be operated without moving hands away from normal typing mode. There is no need to move your hand back and forth between the keyboard and mouse. The QWERTY keyboard is curved with re-programmable thumb keys.
Basic keys and mouse features on the device operate with no driver installation. Basic features work on Linux with full programmable functionality developed for the Windows OS. This ergonomic design will help to prevent repetitive strain injuries by office workers.
(Image: KeyMouse/Kickstarter)

OneRNG is an entropy generator which makes long strings of random bits from two independent noise sources to seed the random number generator of the operating system. The information is then used to create the secret keys you used when accessing web sites or cryptography systems such as SSH and PGP. It adds an extra layer of security for companies that wish to ensure a secure environment.
An avalanche diode generates 'quantum noise' which generates approximately 7 bits of entropy per byte. There is also an RF receiver that frequency hops at random times to random channels and returns closer to 8 bits per byte of entropy data.
(Image: OneRNG/Kickstarter)

Swiftpoint GT is an ergonomic rechargeable Bluetooth device which enables you to swipe or flick using natural finger and wrist action without having touching your screen. The mouse enables you to do touch gestures with a natural finger movement. You do not even need a touchscreen to use this.This will enable you to remotely work in presentation style meetings, or move further away from your device.
(Image: Swiftpoint/Kickstarter)

The Spark watch enables night shift workers, office workers, medical and security staff to overcome fatigue, drowsiness and micro-sleeps.
It uses two custom motion sensors to keep track of movement patterns throughout the day. It is then able to detect when you are in the process of dozing off. It vibrates to wake you back up.
(Image: Spark/Kickstarter)

StoneTether is a small thin Bluetooth low energy 4.0 wireless tracker with a range up to 500 feet. This is achieved through an antenna and powered software delivery system.
It could be useful for tracking high value assets in the larger office environment.
(Image: Stonetether/Kickstarter)

Smootheye enables you to remain focused and reduce distractions. The eyes of a healthy and alert person follow a moving object smoothly while eyes of a tired, drunk or sick person "jump” during the movement.
The goggles have built in infrared diode and a video camera connected to a PC. To check your focus level, follow a moving object on screen for 40 seconds. The video camera captures the eye movement and calculates your score.
This could enable workers that do repetitive or boring jobs to gauge when it is time to take a break.
(Image: Smootheye/Kickstarter)

TrackR bravo is a water resistant tracking device backed with a “Crowd GPS” network. The iPhone and Android app enables you to locate items using the distance indicator radar. There is also an option to “ring” the lost item.
The crowd GPS network will help to find items out of range and receive a GPS update of where the item is. Mislaid corporate assets such as presentation mice and projectors can easily be located.
(Image: TrackR/Indiegogo)

iPocket Drive is a USB hard drive with integrated Apple Lightning connector that doubles the storage on iPhones. The USB hard drive works with iPhone, iPad and iTouch.
It supports all common file formats. Up to 128 Gb storage is available. BYOD workers can easily transfer data from one device to another whilst on the road.
(Image: iPocket/Indiegogo)

