http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2015/01/22/bill-gates-poop-water_n_6526204.html
Bill Gates Dupes Jimmy Fallon Into Drinking Water That Was Once Poop
Look, if you gamble with Bill Gates, you’re most likely going to be sh*t out of luck.
The tech mogul visited "The Tonight Show" on Wednesday to discuss his foundation’s annual letter and to share his latest innovation, poop that’s converted into potable water. Gates first made a splash earlier this month when he downed the engineered beverage and he now wanted host Jimmy Fallon to take a swig.
During the interview, Gates presented Fallon with the "ultimate taste test." The Microsoft co-founder placed two glasses of water in front of the comedian (aptly marked "1" and "2") and let him select his drink of choice.
The two each imbibed his respective glass. Only then did Gates reveal that both glasses were filled with water that was once sewage, which had been processed through a machine called the Omniprocessor.
"I never want to gamble against Bill Gates ever," a hesitant Fallon said even before he took a sip.
Though Fallon initially spit out some of the cup’s contents, he admitted that it "tasted really good."
It may sound crappy at first, but it’s not all that surprising that Gates could turn poop into something palatable.
The health advocate is particularly passionate about this innovation because 1.8 billion people use a source of drinking water that is contaminated with fecal matter, according to the World Health Organization.
Drinking contaminated water can lead to a number of debilitating issues, including diarrheal disease -- which is the second leading cause of death of children under 5.
Because it's too expensive to introduce Western sanitation to developing countries, Gates believes that such projects, like the Omniprocessor, could be key to solving the water crisis, he wrote in a recent blog post on Gates Notes.
Designed and built by Janicki Bioenergy, a Seattle engineering firm, the machine burns human waste to produce electricity and water.
The processor powers itself through the use of a steam engine and because it runs at such a high temperature, the H2O doesn’t emit an odor.
"The water tasted as good as any I’ve had out of a bottle," Gates wrote. "And having studied the engineering behind it, I would happily drink it every day. It’s that safe."
Like Us On Facebook Follow Us On Twitter
