SiSense revamps its analytics/data discovery tool
At the Strata conference in Santa Clara today, Israeli BI company SiSense announced a highly revamped version of its core in-chip analytics/self-service data discovery product. SiSense, which claims 600 customers in 49 countries, won last year's Strata Audience Award. In 2013, the company also tripled its sales and nabbed $10 million in funding.
Originally known as Prism, the now eponymously branded SiSense product combines vector processing, self-service analytics, and a revamped user interface that presents handsome visualizations and a very clean use of type. (Click on the image below for a full-size version that better illustrates that use of type, especially in the donut chart to the left.)
The SiSense user interface is web browser-based, replacing the Windows desktop client that SiSense used previously. The web-based application is also adaptive, rendering well on the full spectrum of devices and form factors, according to the company.
Visualizations aside, SiSense's database engine is actually quite sophisticated. While many products on the market discuss their in-memory capabilities, SiSense is one of the very few that employ not just column store technology and compression, but also "in-chip analytics", including the use of the CPU's onboard cache and special SIMD (single instruction, multiple data) instructions that are built into the CPU.
Beyond this, SiSense uses a cooperative caching strategy that, according to the company, tends to shorten query response times as the number of users increases, rather than the other way around. SiSense says its product can handle thousands of simultaneous users and queries.
SiSense 5 includes new email push notifications and drill down capabilities, as well as enhanced visualizations. The company offers a trial version of the product as a free download. If you have your doubts that a single product can offer a high-end analytic database engine along with strong self-service data discovery and visualization capabilities, the trial may be the best way to confirm or quell those misgivings.

