http://techrepublic.com.feedsportal.com/c/35463/f/670841/s/4454e8ab/sc/4/l/0L0Stechrepublic0N0Carticle0Ccreate0Eyour0Enext0Epresentation0Eof0Eweb0Eresources0Ewith0Ebunkr0C0Tftag0FRSS56d97e7/story01.htm
Create your next presentation of web resources with Bunkr

At first glance, Bunkr looks like yet another tool to create and deliver presentations, such as Google Slides, PowerPoint Online, or Prezi. They're all web-based and web-aware presentation apps. They all support slides with text, images, and video.
That last item -- video -- separates these web-based presentation tools from tools built to present-and-print. Once you add video, a printout of the slides no longer contains the full content of the presentation. To put it another way, handouts can't handle video.
With Bunkr, and the other three apps, you add video with the copy-and-paste of a link. First, find the YouTube video you want to add, and copy the link. Then, while you're on a slide, choose Insert, select Video, and paste the link. Later, when you move through the slides, press play to watch the video without leaving the presentation.
Bunkr fully embraces the web and extends the "copy-and-paste a link" (Figure A) feature to:
That's just a sampling of the sites Bunkr supports. There are a lot more.
Figure A

You can "copy-and-paste a link" to add content from any supported site to a slide. Bunkr formats and displays the material in your presentation (Figure B). From most sites, Bunkr selects an image from the destination page and extracts appropriate text and a title. The image fills the space, while the title, text, and URL appear within the image, left- and bottom-aligned.
Figure B

You can also display a public Google Doc in a Bunkr slide. The Doc appears with the surrounding Google Docs interface elements on the slide. If the Doc is editable, you can type directly into the Google Doc displayed within the Bunkr presentation in your browser (Figure C). You may no longer need a flip chart to capture audience ideas: just type them in the document. Duplicate the slide and place it a several strategic spots in your Bunkr presentation. You're not limited to just one. (Private Google Docs won't display, but it will show a link. You'll have to login to gain access.)
Figure C

After you finish creating your presentation, view it in almost any browser. Select Play, then swipe your finger, click the cursor, or press the arrow keys to move through slides. Bunkr presentations display in mobile browsers of all sizes. (You can also use your mobile browser's "request desktop site" feature to edit your slides.)
Bunkr supports in-browser and full-screen presentation modes. If your presentation contains very few links, you may prefer to present full-screen. However, if you plan to explore linked content, keep the browser tabs visible; you'll find it easier to resume your presentation that way.
Keep in mind that, as of March 2015, Bunkr remains in beta. Some features aren't complete (I never did get the PowerPoint slide import feature to work), and some need refinement (an error message told me to include http:// or https:// when typing links, although most modern browsers no longer require people to type these prefixes). Google Slides, PowerPoint Online, and Prezi are all out of beta.
While Bunkr embraces the web, Google Slides, PowerPoint Online, and Prezi embrace collaboration. If you want a team to create a presentation together, Slides, PowerPoint, or Prezi will work better for you. These three tools allow for multiple authors in a way that Bunkr doesn't (at least as of March 2015).
Bunkr's workflow can save time. For years, I mentioned various websites in my presentations and included screenshots -- and links. For each site, I would 1) capture a screenshot, 2) insert and resize the image on a slide, 3) add a title, and 4) add a link. This isn't complicated, but it still takes a few minutes. Bunkr turns all of that into two steps: copy the URL, and paste it into a slide.
If you rely on web content in your presentations, Bunkr may save you time. If you teach or facilitate meetings, Bunkr and a Google Doc or Sheet might help groups capture ideas neatly in a presentation flow.
But ultimately, I find Bunkr interesting because it's a web-aware web app that offers an elegant, quick way to create and give a presentation.


