<<<<<<< HEAD
http://www.zdnet.com/article/the-growing-evidence-for-social-business-maturity/#ftag=RSSbaffb68
=======
>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
In Europe's biggest firms, social business is all grown up
In Paris last week at Enterprise 2.0 SUMMIT 2015, it was shortly after the CIO of one of the world's largest organizations began walking through the progress of social business within her organization, that the realization hit: The leading edge companies are not really talking about adoption any more, that part is largely done, though plenty of work certainly remains.
Instead, the half dozen case studies from some of the largest firms in the world made it clear that leading organizations are now making advanced use of social tools in the way that they work.
The CIO in this case was Laurie Miller, of the $11.8B material sciences division of Bayer, whose impassioned explanation of how they dealt with the complexity of modern enterprise collaboration within a large organization was a highlight of the event.

The focus on making social collaboration a success over the last year at Bayer Material Sciences has been on making the tools more accessible, demonstrating the value of the approach in pilot projects, employing an innovative reverse mentoring program for senior executives, using a 'train the trainers' program to rapidly build foot soldiers who can widely spread know-how of new tools and approaches within the company, and steady communicating good practices and success stories as they emerge.
In turn, all of these efforts were carefully aligned with the company's mission and vision. However, after a year of the initial rollout, it was clear that adoption of the new collaboration tools had plateaued. The company, looking at the results so far and the ongoing challenges with less modern tools, decided to double down and take their social collaboration efforts to the next level.
Pulling together leaders in both IT and the business they established an ambitious set of goals for social business along with seven KPIs to measure success. The goals including fostering global collaboration, creating stronger networks across regions and departments, creating a culture of sharing that was less hierarchical, and several others. Not the least was focus reducing the confusion of which tools are intended for which job.
The Evolution of Enterprise Software
Enterprise software represents the glue that ties together teams and business processes, especially in global organizations. See how enterprise software is simplifying, webifying, mobilizing, and getting a lot more social.
The results? 50% of employees are now routinely active in the company's enterprise social network after 18 months. For social tools, especially if the resulting environment represents the most influential people in the organization, this is considered a very workable number, as I've found even as little as 20% can produce real benefits.
Similar stories were heard from other large organizations in Europe, who all experienced a measure of maturity and success, bringing unique proof points of their own along the way. A summary of these cases shows that large companies are now becoming established in their use of platforms like enterprise social networks in better connecting and engaging their workers while delivering increased business value such as faster knowledge flows, higher efficiency, and lower operating costs.
Related: The CIO's Guide to the Future of Work
Here's a summary of some of the other top social business leadership examples in Europe today (though I should be clear some other major success stories like BASF and Atos are not included here):
What have these organizations collectively learned about the art of using social networks to make their digital workplaces better and more effective? Looking over the results that were reported, several consistent lessons emerged:
One interesting take-away that came from these case examples was the level of rigor that generally was applied to the effort to become a social business. While formal business plans were only used by some of the companies, most of them worked very hard to discover, document, and communicate what worked best for their organization in highly reusable formats like community templates, knowledge bases of good practices, or business process frameworks.
The Future of IT: A Strategic Guide
ZDNet and TechRepublic draw on their community of C-level executives and business thinkers to prognosticate where business technology is headed over the next 36 months. This includes advice, perspectives, and opinions on both creating and reacting to the future.
This is often in contrast to social business effort in North America which tend to focus more on the broader vision and invest less time connecting their enterprise social networks directly to the work that they do. Another reason I suspect is that the corporate culture in Europe can be more direct. Employee engagement between workers and managers, even with the most senior executives, has more historically been one of open and free exchange of ideas, likely making it more amenable to the bustling give and take of social networks.
Consequently, it's not lost on practitioners these days that many of the largest and most committed efforts with social business are now in Europe. The approach to IT in general in the region is certainly more pragmatic, yet it's also clear that the evolution of the future of work and the new digital workplace is one the minds of just about everyone around the world right now.
So, is social business the leading model for operating our organizations yet? Perhaps not quite, but it is certainly gaining ground and these are some of the leading examples in top organizations today.
Additional Reading

<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
