<<<<<<< HEAD
http://www.zdnet.com/article/the-digital-workplace-2014-plight-and-promise-of-todays-employees/#ftag=RSSbaffb68
=======
>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
The digital workplace 2014: Plight and promise of today's employees
While it's typically the latest cutting-edge technologies like 3D printers and wearable tech that gets the most attention and buzz these days, it's actually the newer IT workhorses of the enterprise that get the job done. Video conferencing, unified communications, and smart mobile devices, while not nearly as exciting as the newest advances, have steadily revamped our workplaces recently and given us much better tools to stay connected with our co-workers and customers. Even enterprise social media is finally seeing widespread adoption and meaningful usage in many workplaces.
It's no secret, however, that consumer tech advances far faster than our workplaces. The typical worker today often has more sophisticated technology at home than they do at their desk. With tech-savvy millennials becoming the vast majority of workers by 2020, our employees often just bring the latest apps, devices, and even datasets from home to get the job done, leading to the consumerization dilemma of the last several years.
But as I pointed out last week, the mandate of the CIO is to empower the entire organization -- in a highly dynamic and changing technology landscape -- with usable strategic data assets that readily drive performance, productivity, and ultimately, better business returns, all in a sustainable manner. In this context, given the high impact it usually has, this frequently comes down to improving the customer-facing aspect of the business.
Achieving high impact typically means 1) a steady and innovative flow of new product and services, 2) more engaged and longer-term relationships with customers to better meet their needs, 3) a growing ability to co-create with them while keeping them away from competitors and 4) the breaking down of much of the wall between the business and the marketplace in order to achieve #1, #2 and #3.
Certainly a large swath of the enterprise technology industry is currently focusing on customer-facing capabilities as the big opportunity in front of most businesses. This includes -- but is certainly not limited to -- interesting new products or upgrades/additions to existing product suites that enable demand generation, marketing automation, customer relationship management, customer care, and open product development, usually over the Internet.
All of these alter the flow, pace, and responsibilities of today's typical worker, who can easily find themselves regularly having to use 20-30 applications a week to get their jobs done, including time tracking, HR administration, project management, productivity apps, and then the apps to actually do their jobs. Add in mobile devices and all sorts of new systems of engagement that further drain and divide attention, and instead of a seemingly infinite set of opportunities, all this new technology sometimes seems to lead us to work lifestyles of fragmented and rushed usage, instead of carefully considered rethinking and enablement of our work.
To add a final layer of frustration, many organizations are increasingly looking at large-scale transformation to modernize and make possible key new structural changes for today's post-industrial business environment. These transformations are often referred to as digital business, social business, or some other top level rubric, which are containers for a lot of technology, culture, and process change that is all interconnected.
With all this it's a wonder that works get done. Yet despite this it's clear that worker productivity has continued to improve steadily over the last decade a half, so benefits are clearly accruing from the near-infinite variety of tech choice that businesses have today. So where does this leave the typical worker and what kind of environment are they likely to face this year? We have a few hints of this from the latest research in the space.
Related: Can technology improve business innovation?
From a variety of sources and my examination of what large enterprises are planning for this year -- including the wonderful new report The Digital Workplace in the Connected Organization in 2014 by workplace technology guru and industry colleague Jane McConnell, we see these significant new workplace/tech factors as moving into focus within organizations this year:
Any examination of the workplace in 2014 would have to mention the obvious as well, including the pervasiveness of mobile devices including tablets, powerful analytics tools heralded by the big data revolution, and the fundamental rethinking of CRM that is much more than just a glorified record keeping tool.
But as I pointed out recently, the real long-term problem that workplace technology must help with -- albeit in a fashion that necessarily has some limits -- is with workforce engagement. The reality today is that most workers in large organizations aren't very well engaged, leading to significant underperformance and failure to reach potential in a great many organizations.
This underperformance has many root causes and reasons but ultimately boils down to two factors: Motivation and an effective means of enabling the worker to achieve what's possible. Technology can actually help with both of these concerns , but only if we're trying to solve the problem. This then should be the one of the most importance areas of concern for technology in the workplace in 2014.
Additonal Reading:
The new digital customer journey: Cross-channel, mobile, social, self-service, and engaged
CRM Watchlist 2014 winners: Customer engagement
Saving the dry, lifeless soul of enterprise software
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
