http://www.zdnet.com/article/building-a-custom-wordpress-site-these-tools-will-reduce-your-pain/#ftag=RSSbaffb68
Building a custom WordPress site? These tools will reduce your pain
I just spent the past few weeks of my "side project" time working on a membership Web site for a professional organization I belong to. I based the site on WordPress, adding a bunch of plug-ins and writing about a thousand lines of custom PHP code to glue everything together. During this process, I refined my toolset considerably since my last WordPress project, and in this article, I'll share with you how I set up my working environment.
One note: I'm not going to talk about plug-ins or individual WordPress components. Instead, I'll be talking about the tools used to manage all of that. I should also note that because this was a pro-bono project (meaning I donated my time to a good cause), I wanted to spend as little as possible on tools. I got some great discounts and used some free tools. Let's get started.

I am a firm believer that coding without a symbolic debugger is like typing with boxing gloves. It's incredibly inefficient. While there are many exceptional code editors with syntax highlighting, code-folding, and other language-aware features, not all editors can do a debugging trace on running code. That's where the IDE (interactive development environment) comes in. With an IDE, you can edit and step through the code.
I looked at a number of products, some of which I found cumbersome and some of which were quite incomplete in terms of features. As I searched, I kept bumping into mentions of PhpStorm, a Java-based development environment. Now, normally, I'd run at top speed away from anything based in Java, but PhpStorm has a very clean user interface, is fast as heck, and rock solid. It has the full suite of features from symbolic debugger to code refactoring. I used it throughout the project and it acquitted itself quite well. There are quite a few features I'm still not sure how to use (it's a deep product), but it definitely got the job done.
PhpStorm is normally $199 but they gave me a free educator copy because I teach at UC Berkeley.

There are times you can tweak files live on the actual production server, but for full-on development, you need to develop locally and deliver to the remote host. I've used XAMPP on Windows before (and, in fact, Desktop Server is based on XAMPP). Desktop Server just adds a pile of features on top of XAMPP that let it nicely integrate with PhpStorm and spin up local Web sites. I don't use their deployment tools (I'll show you the tools I use below), but I've found that working locally was a breeze (once I had the right documentation) with Desktop Server.
There's a free version of Desktop Server, but I bought the $99 premium version because it added Coda Preview, which just so happens to be the next product I'm discussing.

