Lexmark brings enterprise solutions-muscled business to Indonesia
Indonesian history marked 2006 as an important milestone, when Lexmark International began spurring the market with its managed print services (MPS) business.
Lexmark recently showcased its latest product portfolio with hardware, software, and integrated services combined as a solution for the Indonesia market. It conveyed the message that it turned itself into a managed print services company in 2006, and has been one of the leading providers ever since.
In an event entitled Redefining Solutions: Lexmark Print Management and eSF Applications, it said it is strengthening its share in Indonesia by introducing a series of best solutions for the enterprise segment, serving banking, insurance, manufacturing, healthcare, public sector, and retail businesses.
Quite a broad selection of mid- to high-end products — varied from monochrome and colour laser printers as well as monochrome and colour laser multifunction printers offered to small, medium, and large workgroups — was displayed at this half-day event.
Spinning off from IBM back in 1991, Lexmark remained a printer manufacturer until it realized that the hardware business would no longer sustain the company in the long run. 1999 was the year when the flagship pivoted into an MPS provider, and three years ago, by making another turn, it transformed itself into a document, print management, and business solutions provider.
Acquiring 10 software companies since 2010, it intends to enrich its product and service line-up. Accompanied by 3,000 R&D resources, it is ready to serve countries worldwide — 17 of them in Asia-Pacific region.
As few players have been in the sphere, the late-entrant lethal weapon is blending and combining the wide range of software and platforms it got hold of into three platforms to cater for what the market really needs. Reporting a $4 billion revenue turnover, it claims to have a 96 percent contract renewal rate across the world, with the FBI, the CIA, and nine out of 10 big banks in the U.S. joining its clientele.
Asia-Pacific general manager for Enterprise Sales and Services Lee Lee Ken revealed that the company keeps its position in the market through so-called "disruptive technologies" providing cost-savings solutions by optimizing existing infrastructure and devices, implementing document solution, and understanding the prospects of business process, driving efficiency and improving productivity within the enterprise.
"Research tells us many companies spend 1 to 6 percent of its total annual revenue for photocopying and printing purposes. From our perspective, 1 percent is such an amount, let alone the paper itself," she said, citing a study by Gartner and InfoTrends.
Take a look at one of the software packages demoed, Perceptive: It's applied within each stage of a document's lifecycle, from capture, content, and processing to archival.
In lieu of business process management, customers are entitled to attain consultant services from Lexmark's end. If six months have passed, and the customer isn't satisfied, they can just end it. However, there is a minimum fee borne by the customer.
To give you an idea of some the solutions being brought on deck, below we've outlined two of them.
LDIC will allow users to scan hard-copy documents by inserting them from an entry point. Then, the data extraction process is rolled out automatically in such a way as to distribute the result to required applications.
Upon being converted into soft-copy format through Lexmark MFP, the respective document will be sent to server MFP-resident Lexmark Document Distributor+.
Deep diving into its features, LDIC is able to capture information utilizing not only MFP, but also from any other sources, such as email, database, EDI, and mobile devices. Besides storing the data, we could collect information from our back-end systems and share it at the point of capture.
It classifies a document automatically without keying in additional information. Last but not least, we are also able to confirm that a case is completed by capitalizing a checklist of required information or documents before it gets forwarded to back-end systems.
Hands on with the AOC E1759fwu portable USB 3 monitor
We test AOC's 17-inch USB portable monitor - a second screen for your laptop that's light enough to carry around with you. But is it worth the extra weight?
An intelligent engine processes, Brainware clarifies and extracts data from the document.
If applied within a bank, it could extract important information from hard-copy documents. Barcodes, templates, and keywords are no longer necessary. Extracted data will be validated and passed to data management systems, ERP, or any other financial systems — we just leave our current documents and forms as is.
Furthermore, Brainware has the capability to self-identify important words and data from a document. In other words, it is able to work with uncommon document layouts with a high level of accuracy — making it less time consuming and error prone, with no need for manual intervention and data re-entry.
Once an error occurs, like an unmatched document, a missing page, or unread text, Distributor+ and Brainware both send notifications to users operating MFP at the entry point so that the user is able to revise it accordingly.
In the end, the document is routed to a secured repository, then indexed and archived so it can be easily accessed and retrieved.

