Indonesia must step up security defense
Frankly speaking, it's an unpleasant surprise to read Akamai's State of the Internet report for the second quarter this year.
According to the quarterly study showing sources and methods of attacks worldwide, involving 175 countries, Indonesia claimed top spot as the originating country from which attacks were launched, overtaking China which dropped to second position.
Comparing data between the first two quarters, the number of attacks launched from Indonesia almost doubled from 21 to 38 percent. China saw its number dip from 34 percent in the first quarter, to 33 percent. The U.S. followed in the third place, contributing 6.9 percent of total attacks worldwide in the second quarter, down from 8.3 percent in the previous quarter.
Some of us might be aware that the number of public IPs in Indonesia, totaling nearly 6 million, is far behind China's hundreds of millions.
The study tracked IP addresses utilized by hackers who could capitalize these by hijacking certain countries' addresses and launching attacks from compromised computers, said Akamai, which monitors a third of the world's Internet traffic. Indeed, the hacker might be based elsewhere.
The latest report should serve as a wakeup call for the Indonesian government as well as private sector. From what we have observed thus far, even though the country already has national security policies that include dealing with cyberattacks and threats, the implementation of these policies leaves so much room for improvement.
Worse, only few users in the country have moderate and high IT literacy, with the majority of netizens understanding little about how dangerous the Internet can be and are careless with the way they interact online. They visit unsavory websites, and leave their personal computers unprotected by not installing antivirus and personal firewall, which will allow their personal information to be easily stolen by malicious hackers and expose their data to all types of threats ranging from scam, fraud, to theft.
The Akamai report indicates that urgent action is needed. Relevant stakeholders might want to deep dive into the study and follow up with the necessary moves to secure their physical and digital assets.

