Beach volleyball: fan proposes to girlfriend on court in front of thousands
By Ben Leach, and Melanie Mulhern
5:26PM BST 04 Aug 2012
Comments
During a break in play at Horse Guards Parade, Tom Holt, 33, asked Elfi Czinegeova, 32, his girlfriend of three years, to marry him.
Luckily for him, and to the delight of thousands of spectators, she accepted.
Mr Holt, a sales account manager from Brighton, said: “I know it’s an unusual setting but we had the tickets and I thought it would be a great idea.
“I was very nervous. You don’t want to be rejected in front of thousands of people. But I was pretty confident, although you can never be 100 per cent certain.”
The proposal happened after the Italy versus Spain match in the women’s tournament.
Beach volleyball is pure box office
Mr Holt and Miss Czinegeova are both amateur beach volleyball players for their local club, Adur Volleyball Club.
He said he had planned the proposal after getting tickets to the event.
He added: “We both live and breathe the sport so it made sense to me. I planned it ages ago.
“Then when we got to the event I gave a note to the stewards, who passed it on to the announcers, and they thought it was a great idea.
“So they called us down from our seats and took us out on to the sand and then passed me a microphone. I think Elfi was a bit surprised.”
Miss Czinegeova, an operations manager for a company that makes mobile phone cases and originally from Slovakia, said: “I didn’t have any idea what was going to happen or why we were out on the sand.
“Then he dropped on his knees and I was really nervous. I got really emotional and tears came to my eyes and started shaking.
“I had dreamt of being proposed to before but I never thought it would happen there. But we’re both so passionate about the sport it made perfect sense.”
Dozens of spectators took to Twitter to express their delight at the proposal.
One, with the username @rhonams, said: “Topping off my 'weep a day' during the Olympics with a marriage proposal at beach volleyball – eek! (Not mine)."
Another, @OliverLangston, tweeted: “Just witnessed a marriage proposal at the beach volleyball. She said 'yes' in front of 15,000 spectators!”
The couple plan to marry next summer.

