London 2012: bikinis, beer and Benny Hill at the beach volleyball
7:40AM BST 29 Jul 2012
Comments
To Horseguards Parade, where visitors can admire unparalleled views of both the London Eye and Nelson’s Column.
Then there is the classical architecture of George Gilbert Scott, who designed the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, not to mention the neo-antique work of William Kent, who created the Horse Guards building. In the near distance, Big Ben; just next door, Downing Street and St James’s Park.
But yesterday, the only thing anyone was interested in looking at were the fabulously appointed figures of the world’s beach volleyball players.
There were teams from China and Russia, the Czech Republic and Poland.
Australia and America, Switzerland and Greece were all playing in the preliminaries on the opening day of the Games. And yet the majority of the 15,000 strong crowd cared not for nationalities, skill or technique - they were here to see the girls in their bikinis, and the men in their shorts.
David Cameron has 'probably had a peek' at beach volleyball
London 2012: The teenager plucked from obscurity to star in the opening ceremony
Audience laud 'once in lifetime' show
The secrets behind the 'dove bikes'
Triumph and tears for Team GB stars
Secrets of a world-dazzling cauldron
Indeed, this must have been the first time in history that a British crowd have cheered on the Germans, and when I asked a very English woman why she was doing this, her response was really quite simple: “because they’re fit.”
You could not blame her for being seduced by the somewhat fruity atmosphere. The organisers had positively encouraged it. With a wonderfully wry British eye (or ear) on proceedings, the Benny Hill theme tune was played during every break in play.
Beach volleyball originated in the 1920s - in Santa Monica, California - and was recognised by the Olympics at the 1996 games in Atlanta. But most people at Horseguard’s Parade yesterday knew nothing of its rules and regulations, or its terminology - digs, spikes, bumps, floaters and perpendicular trajectories.
Not that this mattered in the slightest: for beach volleyball is as much about the atmosphere as it is about the sport, and the matches were almost incidental. The crowd cheered the men who went to rake the sand as much as they did the towering athletes.
An over-excited announcer geed up the audience, who, to be fair, needed very little encouragement.
“Everyone on your feet!” “Here comes the sun!” “You guys ROOOOCK!” “DO THE MEXICAN WAVE!” It wasn’t very British. It wasn’t very Horseguard’s Parade. But it was a whole lot of fun.
Over the tannoy system, they played the hits of the Spice Girls and Queen and Tinie Tempah at deafening volume.
They had started testing the sound at 7am; goodness knows what the Prime Minister and Chancellor, presumably asleep in Downing Street next door, made of it all - but it must have been vaguely positive given that David Cameron arrived for the afternoon session, just in time to see the men’s Team GB squad take on Norway.
Between games, dancers flooded onto the sand, bare of feet and of clothes. The women wore fifties style swimsuits in which they wiggled their hips provocatively, and the biggest cheer of the day went not to some impressive rally or attack hit by a player, but to the two dancers who seemed to re-enact the finale of Dirty Dancing, though this time in the sand.
With an atmosphere like that, temperatures could only rise. Worries that rain might stop play - or, more importantly, the wearing of bikinis - were completely unfounded.
By lunchtime the court was a balmy 22 degrees. The crowd was well-oiled - in a very British way, lager had been available to purchase from 8am.
This patch of land had not seen this much fun since the reign of King Henry VIII, when jousting tournaments would take place here.
A Russian player, yellow-carded for something nobody could quite work out, was booed like a pantomime villain. Giant screens flashed everyone helpful hints as to what was going on: “MONSTER BLOCK!”; “POWERFUL SPIKE!”; “SPECTACULAR!”; “BOOM!”.
It was like the X Factor mixed with Wimbledon by way of Ipanema Beach. The sand - its quality tested in a laboratory in Canada - almost shimmered.
Chris Dickens and Andy Naisbitt, both 23, had travelled from Basingstoke in head to toe Union Jacks - they said this was the best Saturday that they had ever had, and it wasn’t even lunchtime.
“The dancers, the announcer, the views, the women’s bottoms,” enthused Dickens.
“It’s all been amazing.” He was even in awe of the arena’s construction. “That,” he said, looking up at the building, “is the best piece of scaffolding I have ever seen.” One man declined to give me his name “because it is very difficult to say anything about beach volleyball without sounding extremely sexist.”
Captain Robin White, 29, was on standby for the army - despite having lost his finger after being shot at last year in Afghanistan - but in the meantime he had bought his own ticket for the event, and had come, almost inexplicably, dressed as an elf.
His friends had also turned up in bright green outfits, but they were more bothered about the clothing worn on the court. “We checked the weather forecast before we left this morning,” said Owen Oxlade, 29, from Twickenham.
“It’s just incredible to be here, in the middle of Central London, surrounded by some of these historic landmarks, but also surrounded by people from all over the world who are having this amazing time, in our city. I feel really proud to be British right now.”
Oliver Hive, 29, from Mortlake, had found it “a surprisingly skillful game.
I knew very little about it at 8 o’clock this morning - I’m more of a rugby man - but I will definitely be watching it again.”
And that’s one of the first surprises of the Olympics: people enjoying the beach volleyball as a sport, and not just for the bikinis. Though naturally, they helped.

