Australian Open 2015: Madison Keys threatens to power her way to the top of women's game with 75mph stroke
By Simon Briggs, Tennis Correspondent, in Melbourne
7:19PM GMT 22 Jan 2015
Comments
Who is the heaviest hitter in the women’s draw at the Australian Open? If it were a podium finish then Serena Williams (average groundstroke speed 69mph) would take the bronze, with Maria Sharapova (70mph) sneaking the silver.
But the gold? Unless you are a regular follower of the women’s tour, you might be surprised to hear that it goes to a 19-year-old from Illinois named Madison Keys. And the winning margin is not even a close one.
Keys clocked in at 75mph, thus destroying the rest of the field in the same way that she crushes the ball.
Power is nothing without control, as Nike once averred in an advert featuring Carl Lewis in a pair of high heels. But still, take note of Keys. A ranking of No 35 in the world might not seem too special, yet she played more like a grand-slam contender yesterday, dismantling 29th-seed Casey Dellacqua with the most scintillating display of hitting this week.
“Once she got confident and once she got swinging, she’s pretty much top-10 material I would say,” Dellacqua said. “I think the game’s always on Madison’s racket.”
Watch: Moment Federer crashes out
Bouchard twirl request was sheer bad manners
'Give us a twirl': Sexism row at Australian Open
Ouch! Ball boy hit in the...
For all her ability, Keys will still be up against it in her third-round match on Saturday. She faces the in-form Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova, another woman who is capable of knocking down the backboard with her heavy artillery.
But whatever happens in the short term, 2015 promises to be a rewarding year for Keys. The daughter of a pair of solicitors, she took up tennis at the age of four after telling her parents that she liked Venus Williams’s dress. Now she is perhaps the nearest female equivalent to the wave of exciting teenagers – think Nick Kyrgios, Borna Coric and Alexander Zverev – energising the men’s game.
You only have to look at the people around Keys to see how highly regarded she is. Her agent, Max Eisenbud, looks after a small stable of elite players that started with Maria Sharapova, and includes Li Na and Britain’s own Laura Robson.
For Keys, the final piece of the puzzle could prove to be Lindsay Davenport, the ‘supercoach’ she recruited at the end of last year. The trend for famous names to return to the tour was originally a male preserve, but Andy Murray broke the mould again when he hired Amélie Mauresmo last May, and since then Martina Navratilova has agreed to work with Polish world No 6 Agnieszka Radwanska.
“Once people saw that Ivan Lendl was coming back and getting involved, a lot of us got excited,” said Davenport, the 1999 Wimbledon champion. “Tennis is so much more advanced now: you have the technology, the analysis, the focus on recovery. In the 1990s it was just, ‘OK, why don’t you just stretch a little bit and get a massage?’ Now there’s a whole system to cooling down, hydrating, ice-baths, proper physio work. Tennis is now a job that encompasses 17, 18 hours a day.”
Davenport – a renowned power player in her day – was contacted by Eisenbud in October. Even though she has four young children, she was intrigued by the fact that Keys had moved to a training base near her own home in Laguna Beach, California. And once she got out on the court with her new protégé, she knew this was an opportunity she had to take.
“It sounds weird but I hadn’t seen her that much, even though I cover tennis on TV, because she’s not always on the main show courts,” Davenport said. “So when I first hit with her the last few days of October, it was like, ‘Oh my god, this is huge’. And I played against people whose shots were considered heavy at the time, Venus or Maria or Serena.
“So I’m finding myself playing with someone who’s only 19, who has these amazing weapons, who is pretty technically sound. What’s holding her back? Maybe mentally how she approaches matches, or how she plays the bigger points. And she could do with some extra margin on some of her shots. But I feel everything she can improve on is coachable. It’s not like [Caroline] Wozniacki’s forehand, where everyone’s like ‘She’s got to be more aggressive’, but it’s really tough with her technique and her grip.”
The two women found it easy to bond, for they have much in common. Davenport was herself a teenage phenomenon with booming groundstrokes, but she had to learn the art of control while also streamlining her physique.
It was only after investing huge effort in her fitness programme that she became the world’s leading player in the late Nineties.
“There’s a lot of things I can help her with because I went through a very similar path,” said Davenport. “And even having dinner the first time we met, there was this girl that is very polite and nice and down to earth. I immediately took to her personality and the fact that she’s so young, she’s not jaded, there’s not a big entourage. The only drawback is that I can hit with her but I can’t push her, so you have to bring in somebody who hits as well and is as big and as physical as Madison.” Which is not an easy checklist to complete.

