Delays in tennis are becoming tiresome - kill the warm-up and ban towelling down between points
By Simon Briggs, Tennis Correspondent
11:50PM GMT 01 Jan 2015
Comments

1. Kill the warm-up. Tennis scheduling is difficult enough without 2pm start-times dribbling on until 2.15pm because of a gentle, listless warm-up. Make sure the players can prepare on an adjacent court and arrive ready to play.
2. Ban towelling down between points. Players should only be allowed to dry themselves at changeovers. Use of the towel has become a mental crutch, a method players use to keep from rushing, but it looks rubbish and slows the game down.
3. Zero tolerance on conflicts of interest. The tennis family is a small one, and too many people wear too many hats. ATP board members also hold broadcasting contracts. Players own management companies that strike deals on behalf of their rivals. More rigour is needed.
4. Better doping safeguards. Richard Ings, the Australian who used to run tennis’s anti-doping programme, is right to suggest that 2014 saw a big step forward in the fight against performance-enhancing drugs. But that doesn’t change the fact that we still need to do more.

March 6, 2015: start of Davis Cup first-round match between Great Britain and USA in Glasgow’s Emirates Arena.
From a tennis reporter’s perspective, the best week of last year came not at any of the grand slams but in San Diego – the lovely Californian city where Jim Courier’s American Davis Cup team hosted Andy Murray and company in a baseball stadium called Petco Park.
The result was a glorious 3-1 victory for Great Britain, who thus recorded their first win in the World Group since 1986. And now the draw for 2015’s Davis Cup has thrown up a rematch, to be held this time in the cooler climes of Glasgow.
“When you see Great Britain v the USA come out of the hat, it just has a good ring to it,” says the British Davis Cup captain Leon Smith. “There’s so much history and rivalry between the teams, going back all the way to the first Davis Cup match more than 100 years ago.
“This time they will probably have their No. 1 singles player available, in John Isner [who missed the first match with an ankle injury]. That changes the dynamic of the tie; even though we’re playing at home this time, it’s difficult to see any court surface giving one side a big advantage. But we know, as we did in San Diego, that this is a match we can win. If there is no upset against Andy, we will need just one more point, whether it’s beating the Bryan twins in the doubles or taking a rubber of their No. 2 singles player, who will probably be either Sam Querrey or Donald Young.”
Much responsibility is thus likely to fall on the shoulders of James Ward, who made the most significant move of the previous tie when he upset Querrey in California. But there is also a good chance of a recall for Jamie Murray, whom Smith suggests was the outstanding British doubles player of 2014. A doubles match pitting the Bryan brothers against the Murray brothers would be a collector’s item.

Liam Broady
There were Eureka moments for a couple of British players this year, as James Ward approached the promised land of the top 100 while Liam Broady climbed 140 places on the rankings ladder in the space of two months.
For both men, the recipe was simple enough. Play, and play, and then play some more. In the case of Broady, a 20-year-old left-hander from Stockport, he got through more than 90 matches in 2014. The rewards came in a rush, as he scored a career-best win over world No. 97 Tim Smyczek on his way to a first Challenger final in Charlottesville, Virginia.
“I always felt that I could get results on a good day, but I’ve learned to maintain my level better,” said Broady, who finished the year ranked 189 in the world, five places ahead of his near contemporary Kyle Edmund. “My goal next season is to break into the top 100, and that way I will be able to fund my own career rather than having rely on the Lawn Tennis Association. I’ve only got 30 points to defend before Wimbledon so that’s a period when I’ll be looking to make a big push.”
Broady – whose sister Naomi won a round at Wimbledon this year – spent some of the winter break training in La Manga, Spain, with his LTA-supplied coach Mark Hilton. His appetite for success is keen. Until this autumn, many tennis insiders had questioned whether he had the talent and persistence to forge a professional career. Now he knows that if he stays fit and keeps working hard, he is on track to be a significant asset for British tennis. A place in March’s Davis Cup team is not out of the question.

