World Cup 2022 final in Qatar will be on December 18
By Ben Rumsby, in Zurich
4:59PM GMT 19 Mar 2015
Comments
The 2022 World Cup final will be played a week before Christmas after Fifa ratified the historic switch of the tournament to the winter.
The governing body confirmed its executive committee followed the recommendation of a task force set up to examine the dates of the event in Qatar by moving it to November-December.
It also decided the final should take place on Sunday, Dec 18 – Qatar National Day – with the tournament scheduled “in principle” to last 28 days, half a week shorter than usual.
That would mean a start date of Monday, Nov 21.
Fifa created a massive headache for itself by picking Qatar
Fifa’s director of communications Walter De Gregorio said: “The ExCo decided today that the World Cup as proposed by the task force, as you know, will be played in November-December, with the final on the 18th of December.
“Based on the proposal of the task force, we’re going to try to play in 28 days.
“That’s the decision in principle. Now we have to see with the international match calendar how this might be possible.”
De Gregorio confirmed the dates had been proposed by Sheikh Salman Bin Ebrahim Al Khalifa, the head of the task force, and were accepted by his fellow ExCo members.
“This is, for us, an important step,” he added. “Finally, we know the end of the tournament.
The Qatar bid has been tainted by allegations of bribery and corruption
“It’s a Sunday and, by the way, it’s the national day in Qatar, so it fits perfectly.
“You have enough time to do your Christmas shopping.”
Fifa president Sepp Blatter had already promised the tournament would finish “no later” than December 18 following a backlash against a proposal for the final to be played two days before Christmas.
Stakeholders will now seek to limit the damage caused by the switch to their own competitions.
Uefa president Michel Platini, who voted for Qatar to stage the 2022 tournament, was first to make his case.
“December 18 is a good date for the final – perhaps December 23 would be too late if you are trying to get all the fans back on December 24,” he said.
“December 18 is fine for Uefa – we can accommodate any changes to the Champions League.
“But Fifa must now protect the international dates for the national associations – there are four international matches that could be affected and those are the lifeblood for the national associations.
“Fifa must look at the international calendar and make sure those dates are protected for the national associations.”
The decision to move the World Cup was taken more than four years after the most controversial award of a sporting event in history, one plagued by allegations of bribery and corruption.
Qatar’s shock victory in the race for the 2022 tournament was achieved in defiance of warnings about the extreme summer temperatures in the country, which can exceed 50 degrees.
That led to immediate calls for a winter switch but it has taken until this week for Fifa to resolve the matter.
Opposition to the move appears to have been quelled, although at a financial cost to the game’s world governing body that could run into hundreds of millions, if not billions, of pounds.
The last hurdle appears a deal with the European Club Association – members of which include Manchester United, Liverpool, Arsenal and Chelsea – to compensate it over the release of players for the next two World Cups.
That could be announced following this week’s Fifa ExCo meeting and is expected to total around £150 million for Qatar 2022 alone, three times the amount paid for last year’s tournament in Brazil.
The Premier League has resigned itself to a November-December switch, with the division itself likely to restart on Boxing Day, more than a week after the World Cup final.

