The Socrates Effect: a new short story by Mal Peet
By Mal Peet
4:21PM GMT 03 Mar 2015
Comments
This was originally published on 13.7.2014
It all started when uncle Segundo’s cockerel got its head shot off. The cockerel was a very fine one and his name was Socrates. He had a black body that was also a kind of blue when the sun was on it, and gold eyes in a red head and freckly gold feathers spilling down his neck onto his breast. He lived on the roof of uncle Segundo’s house. People had gathered at the house because uncle Segundo had a widescreen TV and a good satellite dish and because he was a big man in the neighbourhood who liked to provide plenty of food and drink to impress his guests. There were maybe 30 people there to watch Brazil play their first game in the Copa do Mondo. Too many to fit into the room, so Segundo had moved the TV out on to what he called his “balcony” and rigged up a tarp to shield the screen from the sun. Or the rain. The sky looked moody and the air was thick. The little kids sat at the front nearest the TV and the rest of us crowded behind, some indoors, watching from the doorway and the window. A lot of beer was getting knocked back. By the time the game started things had already got a bit rowdy. Uncle Segundo sat in his chair in the middle of it all with a smile on his face. We’d all been waiting a long time for this and the waiting had been rough.
Now, I have to explain that Segundo was crazy in two ways. One: he was football crazy, which is normal. Two: he was just plain crazy. There are lots of crazy people in Rocinha because Rocinha drives you crazy. It’s hard to live here. You have to watch yourself. People get killed all the time. And it got worse the months before the Copa because the government moved police and army into the favela to “pacify” the place. In other words, to take Rocinha back from the drug gangs because there’d be lots of TV crews and reporters in Rio, and the government didn’t want the world to see the way most of us really live. “Pacify” means “make things peaceful”. Pacifying Rocinha got really violent, man. Helicopters overhead. Gunfights. Armoured cars on the street. People got disappeared more than usual.
READ: Futebol Nation: a history of Brazil through its football obsession
Uncle Segundo was involved. You know what I mean? He knew both the drugs guys and the police and he would walk into situations waving his arms about and talking and shouting and somehow chill things out. A miracle he never got shot. A miracle he sometimes stopped other people getting shot. The mayor gave him a place on a committee. So people looked up to Segundo, even though the government took no notice of what the committee said or did.
The best World Cup books for kids
World Book Night: give a book to someone you love
Mal Peet, writer, dies aged 67
But the best craziest thing about uncle Segundo, as far I was concerned, was that he’d trained Socrates to crow like a brass trumpet when Brazil scored. Gol! Gol! Segundo would yell. Then Socrates up on the roof would lift his gleaming neck and open his throat and celebrate: Carra Carra Hew! Carra Carra Hew!
Which is what happened when Brazil scored the first goal. Us kids all jumped up and danced about and high-fived with the adults and all of that. Gol! Gol! And Socrates up on the roof let rip: Carra Carra Hew! There was gunfire, too, but we were used to it and besides we figured it was fans who happened to own guns firing into the air because of the goal.
The game went quiet in the second half and the grown-ups got restless, offering expert advice and cursing. “A back pass? The hell was that?” “Come on, come on. Move it up!” Stuff like that. Then Neymar, who’d spent most of the game looking like someone who didn’t want to get his hair upset, drove into the box, played a sweet one-two off of David Luiz and slashed the ball into the back of the net. The TV commentator made the word Gol! last a whole minute, and we all like erupted, man. Then I saw Segundo frown and look upwards and I realised Socrates hadn’t sounded off like he should. We watched Segundo climb the ladder up to the roof. When he came back down we all went silent because he was carrying Socrates and because he had blood on his hands and because Socrates’s head was missing.
Segundo said nothing. He went back to his chair and sat stroking Socrates’s body. He blinked his eyes a lot but his face was like a rock. Auntie Ana went and stood behind him and put her hand on his shoulder. She didn’t say anything either, even though blood was dripping onto the floor and she was very house-proud.
The game ended and the guests left quietly, out of respect for Segundo’s loss, and joined the partying in the streets. Man, it was like Carnival out there. My uncle put Socrates in a bag and went and buried him in the little patch of earth between his house and the next one. When he came back he washed his hands and told us how when he’d found Socrates dead he’d looked around and seen these four armed cops grinning at him from a flat roof about 50 metres away and a bit farther up the hill.
During the past few weeks, the military and the cops had set up what they called observation posts on some of the higher buildings in the favela. They’d made themselves comfortable up there, with folding chairs and coolboxes for beer, sometimes even parasols like they were at the beach. They had binoculars and radios and cameras. And sniper rifles. One of the four cops grinning at uncle Segundo had wagged his elbows like wings and crowed. So Segundo knew where the shot that killed Socrates had come from.
Five days later, a crowd – not such a big one this time – gathered in front of uncle Segundo’s TV again. When Brazil equalised early in the second half we went crazy with relief. You could hear yelling and drumming from all over the neighbourhood. Fireworks exploded in the sky like flowers on long grey stalks. Uncle Segundo got up and climbed the ladder. A minute later, we heard him: Carra Carra Hew! Carra Carra Hew! It was a pretty good impersonation of Socrates, in my opinion. Auntie Ana was not impressed, though. She went to the foot of the ladder and screeched up at Segundo.
“For the love of God, you fool! Come down! You wanna get your head shot off too? Shut up and come down!” He did, but not before he crowed another couple of times. We gave him a round of applause but he didn’t smile.
Brazil scored again in the 85th minute and there was the same wildness as before. And just like before, uncle Segundo got up and climbed up on to the roof, ignoring Ana calling him names and begging him not to. My cousin Kiki nodded at me and we climbed the ladder too. On the roof Segundo was standing facing the cops with his arms by his sides. Kiki and me went and stood beside him. When he lifted his face to the sky and crowed we lifted our faces to the sky and crowed along with him. Then my half-sister Flor and another kid climbed on to the roof and joined in. Then a couple of grown-ups. We all did a Socrates, five, maybe six times. And the cops weren’t grinning. They just watched us. One spoke into his radio.
So that was how it started. After that, more and more of us climbed on to the roof and crowed like cockerels every time there was a goal, even in games we didn’t care much about. Japan scored: Carra Carra Hew! England scored: Carra Carra Hew! And it spread. All over Rocinha, people got out onto their roofs and crowed at the cops whenever there was a goal. In the streets, too. A goal, and people spilt out of houses and bars and crowed like Socrates at the cops and the soldiers in their armoured cars and bullet-proof vests. And the cops and the army didn’t know what to do. Because by now the newspapers and the TV had heard about what was going on and there were photographers and film crews from all over the world coming into Rocinha to catch the action. So what were the cops gonna do? Like, shoot people and kids for impersonating chickens? With TV crews filming it? No way, man.
Have to tell you, though, there was one time I thought it might happen. I can’t remember what game it was. After the group stage, anyway. Someone, Spain maybe, scored and we all went up and did the Socrates thing. And the cops on the nearby roof had had enough. One of them had a loud-hailer and he lifted it to his mouth and said with a robot voice, “Clear the roof! Clear the roof! This is an order. Clear the roof NOW or we will open fire.”
There were, I don’t know, 10 or more of us up there with Segundo and one or two threw themselves down or scampered back to the ladder. But the rest of us, including me and Kiki and Flor and Auntie Ana, we stood up and went Carra Carra Hew! Like, the hell with you. So then two of the cops lifted their guns and aimed them at us and my heart started going samba in my chest and my ears went dead and I looked up at uncle Segundo thinking I might see his head blown off right then and there would be blood and brains everywhere. Then I saw that there were bunches of people on roofs all around, some crowing, some just watching and some taking pictures on their phones. The cops lowered their guns.
Carra Carra Hew!
That’s when I saw uncle Segundo smile for the first time since he’d found Socrates dead.
By the time the quarter-finals came round, the cops had gone. Vanished from the roofs. The day of the semi-finals, Segundo came back to the house with a new cockerel in a crate perched on the back of his motorbike. This one was the colour of brass with a black neck and red comb that flopped over one eye. Segundo took him up onto the roof and I followed him.
Segundo set the bird down and gave it some corn.
“This is Garrincha. Say hi.”
I said, “Hi, Garrincha.”
The cockerel tipped its head and looked at me with its uncovered eye.
Garrincha, like Socrates, is the name of a great player from the old days. Garrincha means “little bird”.
The cockerel wasn’t that little, in fact. And it hasn’t learnt to crow when we score.
But it will.
READ: Best books of 2014

