Commonwealth Games 2014: Weightlifting gives former Miss Leeds Sarah Davies new mission in life
By Jonathan Liew
8:52PM BST 27 Jul 2014
Comments
The Faversham nightclub in Leeds, March 2012. A small crowd gathers to watch as 20 finalists are put through a series of tests, including an evening-wear display and an on‑stage interview.
After that, the judges – Simon Hirst from Capital FM, a local magazine journalist and Miss Harrogate 2010 – confer to pick a winner.
Amid a low-budget pyrotechnic display, a sash is draped over the winner of Miss Leeds 2012: a student called Sarah Davies.
Two years later, Davies is backstage at the Clyde Auditorium, having swapped her ball gown for a leotard, her tiara for a hair-clip, her flowers for flour-dusted palms and her sash for a metal bar weighing as much as her father. Only her earrings, bearing the cross of St George, give away a clue to her previous life.
The weightlifting competition consists of two stages: the snatch, and the clean and jerk. In the snatch, the weight is lifted above the head in one movement, after which, hopefully, the lifter is able to straighten their knees and stand upright.
British hopes smashed in sevens
Matthew books place in squash final
Shotgun star Kerwood claims gold
Halsall completes double
Battle lines drawn in latest turf wars
From 16st smoker to marathon runner
First attempt in the 63kg category. The bar is 83kg – the weight of a dolphin. The thumping rock music falls silent. She crouches down and lifts the bar, but her knees buckle under the weight. Down it comes.
To be a lifter, you need to be pretty stubborn. Most people, when faced with an immensely heavy thing like a filing cabinet or a piece of furniture, will do anything they can to avoid lifting it. They will roll it, or shimmy it, or kick it, or load it onto a trolley, or pay someone from a lower socioeconomic group to move it for them.
It takes a special kind of person to look at something heavy, and think: “Yeah, I’ll put that thing above my head.”
Davies has always had that touch of steel to her. She was determined that somehow, she would make it in sport. She was a national-level gymnast until the age of 15.
She danced in the ballroom at Blackpool Tower in a Latin American dance competition. She played golf for her county. Sport was in the blood.
She went to Leeds Metropolitan University with the aim of becoming a PE teacher. That is her full-time career now, although recently she has put it on hold so she can train for the Commonwealth Games. But three years ago, she had still never picked up a barbell.
Second attempt. Davies lifts the bar and manages to get to her feet. But her momentum is taking her forward. She shuffles forward a couple of steps, and then a couple more, but she is losing control.
The bar is falling. With a Newtonian inevitability, it falls to earth with a crash, rolling a few feet for good measure. Davies walks off, blinking back tears.
While Davies was at university, she met her boyfriend Jack Oliver. Oliver was training for the London Olympics – he eventually finished 10th – and one evening Davies was getting bored of waiting in the gym for him to finish. So she picked up a 30kg bar, and snatched it clean above her head.
Davies realised she might be quite good at this. A few weeks after she was crowned Miss Leeds, she was crowned British junior champion.
After two failures, things are getting serious. One attempt remains, and if she fails a third time she will be disqualified. Minutes earlier, that very fate had befallen Mona Pretorius of South Africa. Everything is on the line.
Third attempt. Up it goes. Up she goes. And there they both stay. She is smiling before she has even put the bar down again.
The second stage is the clean and jerk. First you lift the bar on to your shoulders. That bit is the clean. Then, with a burst of explosive power and buttocks of iron, you leap to your feet, raising the bar above your shoulders in triumph. That bit is the jerk.
First attempt. The bar is at 105kg – the weight of a panda. Although she lifts the bar, it is a scruffy lift. The judges rule it illegal.
There is a myth that weightlifting is all in the arms. Really, the power comes from the thighs and buttocks, but how many girls walk straight past a barbell for fear of ending up with “butch” arms?
Davies has definition in her biceps, but she looks no more like an athlete than most young women.
She has made it her mission in life to change perceptions of weightlifting, and perhaps even perceptions of beauty, too.
For sure, Davies does not look like a typical weightlifter.
“The job that I start in September, I wrote on my application form that I did weightlifting,” she says. “I turned up to the interview and they were like: ‘Are you the weightlifter?’ There is that stereotype. It’s good to surprise people.”
Second attempt at 105kg. Davies raises the bar to her shoulders easily. Then she waits. Time is running out. But with her last ounce of effort, she spreads her legs wide, lifts the bar clean above her head and recovers her balance. The crowd whoops in delight.
Davies fails with her third attempt at 110kg, her total of 188kg good enough for seventh place. A medal was always going to be just out of her reach, but as she trudges off the stage there is still a great deal of disappointment.
“I went out there and did what I could do,” she says. “What more could you ask for? Just a little bit of nerves, I guess.”
But the beauty queen leaves Glasgow with a new flock of admirers. In September, as she begins the road to Rio, she also starts a teaching job.
Perhaps some of her new pupils will have been watching her here. “I hope so,” she says, and for a moment the tears give way to a smile: the smile of someone who has found their true calling.

