<<<<<<< HEAD
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570808/s/3c6a7c78/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cgolf0Ctheopen0C10A9624380CThe0EOpen0E20A140EErik0ECompton0Egolfs0Emedical0Emiracle0Ewins0Ebattle0Eto0Eplay0Ethe0EBritish0Bhtml/story01.htm
=======
>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
The Open 2014: Erik Compton, golf's medical miracle, wins battle to play the 'British'
By James Corrigan, Golf Correspondent
10:30PM BST 11 Jul 2014
Comments
When you are 34 and on your third heart, it is difficult not to keep sporting setbacks in perspective. Yet the disappointment was so great when Erik Compton discovered that his US Open heroics had not been enough to earn him automatic entry to next week’s Open that, in his own words, “I felt really, really bummed out”.
Compton’s runner-up placing at Pinehurst was a story which captured the world’s attention. In golfing circles, everyone knew all about the tale of the PGA Tour professional who, because he suffered from a condition which meant his heart could not pump strongly enough, underwent two transplants, the most recent in 2008.
Yet majors make major news, and Compton’s remarkable performance in what was only his second major filled the media. The full range of, it must be said, rather crass “heart” headlines duly appeared.
Compton was not worried. He was in the midst of his childhood fantasy – a fantasy which most assumed would remain just that. A sizeable portion of Compton’s excitement was at qualifying not only for next year’s Masters, but for the Open.
“I was like ‘Wow’ – I’d always wanted to play in the ‘British’,” Compton says. “I have family in Norway and I consider myself something of a European as well. So for me to play in what is undoubtedly the biggest event in Europe – if not the world – in front of members of my Norwegian family who I knew would make the trip, had always been a big aim.
McIlroy sets course record
Uehara takes an early lead at Royal Birkdale
Davies wants ban on caddies lining up putts
Rose fears battering ahead of Hoylake
Mickelson: Winning a second Open is a lot easier
Does Woods deserve Ryder Cup place?
“And for at least a few days I thought I’d done it. But then someone told me there was no exemption for coming home second at the US Open and I was really, really bummed out. That’s why I went to the Quicken Loans.”
The Quicken Loans National was at Congressional and was two weeks after the US Open. As he had honoured a commitment to play in the Travelers Championship immediately after Pinehurst, he was running on fumes. He was spluttering and in pain.
“I was exhausted; it had hurt at the Travelers. Not just because of my condition and the medication, but all the attention and everything that came with finishing second,” he said.
“I should probably have taken a break – I needed one – but there were a few Hoylake spots on offer at the Congressional and I was desperate to make it. I’d tasted what it felt like being in contention at a major and I wanted that again.”
Compton inevitably fell short, finishing outside the top 40, but it was not to matter. Because of the vagaries of Open qualifying, the exemptions ended up going down and beyond the top 75 in the world rankings, and because he had risen to 73rd after Pinehurst, Compton at last received his gold ticket.
“You know, in many ways to get in because of my ranking is even more satisfying because it means it was not just one week, but many weeks which saw me qualifying. It feels even more deserved. I should be there and I can’t wait to get there.”
It is not Compton’s first trip to the UK. In 1999, seven years after his first transplant, the boy from Miami played the Amateur Championship at Royal County Down.
“People told me what would and would not be possible and I didn’t accept that. We went over and what I gained most was simply the experience. The weather was awful, players could barely reach the fairways and as I was a 19-year-old and had not seen anything like it before, I didn’t play well. I went with my family, we rented a car, went to pubs and met so many people. It was fun. Boy, was it fun ... ”
It was incredible, that is what it was, and already he was hailed as a role model for the transplant community. Compton had shown what was possible and by earning a golf sponsorship to the University of Georgia and appearing in the 2001 Walker Cup he continued to raise the bar. After that came professional life and he was making a decent living, albeit not on the first rung, when, in 2008 his second heart gave out. He thought his time was over.
But the second transplant was a success and so Compton resumed. Three years later he defied the odds again, in spectacular fashion, by playing his way on to the PGA Tour. Then, after losing and regaining his card, what came to pass in North Carolina was pure Hollywood.
Married to Barbara and with a five-year-old daughter, Petra – who doctors gave him little hope of conceiving – he had qualified for his national championship with absolutely nothing to lose.
“I always knew that I would be able to compete on that big a stage. Everything I went through as a kid, everything I went through afterwards, had prepared me for a big week. A major isn’t life threatening, it’s there to be enjoyed, embraced. And for a while, I was the American in the US Open trying to chase down Martin [Kaymer] and actually making a bit of a run.
“I’m good friends with Henrik [Stenson] and he said, ‘Take in this crowd, Erik, because you’ll never hear anything better than this’. It wasn’t to be, Martin was too good; but I definitely want that feeling again. Yes, sir.”
The days after were a frenzy. “I couldn’t count the messages, from all sorts of people – they were special. But I’ve been doing this a long time so it’s not like it was all brand new. For instance, I had already planned to make some hospital visits the day after Pinehurst. It wasn’t hastily arranged as many thought. It was already in the books. I’ve been so well prepared for this moment for such a long time, because I’ve been dealing with this for more than 20 years.
“I’ve done so much work with the community with transplants; so for me, it was just another achievement on the golf course. But I know it’s more than that and I don’t think I’ll really notice the significance until I go to play the ‘British’ and meet some new people who have been affected by my story. That’ll be cool.”
Compton is plainly not done with the inspiring. There are ambitions which can be satisfied with a similar showing at Hoylake. “Pinehurst was set up like a links course,” he said “It’s a different kind of golf, firm and fast, and I think that style of golf suits my game.
“I’ve had two transplants, yeah, and that will obviously always be with me. But I am a professional golfer and like any professional golfer I have goals in mind. I really want to make the Ryder Cup team for Gleneagles. I’m 19th in the standings and that’s not too far off the pace. And I’d like to move up the rankings and play in other majors. I’m in the next four majors anyway and my whole thing is ‘Why not?’.
“I’ve come this far, I’m in the ‘British’. It’s just a dream of mine to be able to say that, but now I can actually live it. And that’s what it’s all about – living it.”
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
