Martin Kaymer's US Open victory can boost Europe in Ryder Cup, says Paul McGinley
By James Corrigan, Golf Correspondent
10:00PM BST 16 Jun 2014
Comments
Paul McGinley, the Europe Ryder Cup captain, believes that Martin Kaymer’s stunning US Open victory can act as a huge boost for his team’s chances at Gleneagles in September.
The German won his second major by eight shots at Pinehurst on Sunday, to guarantee himself a third appearance in the biennial dust-up. McGinley was one of the first to send his compliments to Kaymer as the Dubliner welcomed Europe’s fourth victory in America’s national championship in five years.
“I texted Martin immediately after the final round finished with my own congratulations and he texted me straight back – obviously he was thrilled,” McGinley said. “He has proved himself as a valuable Ryder Cup team member in the past, and to back up what he did in the last Ryder Cup in Medinah with this victory on a personal level – adding to his Players Championship success last month – is fantastic not just for the team but for the European Tour as well.”
At Medinah, Kaymer shrugged off poor form to earn a point against Steve Stricker in the Sunday singles which ensured Europe would retain the Ryder Cup.
McGinley sees in the 29-year-old a steely competitor with the game and inner strength to prove a crucial cog in his team. “It takes a certain kind of individual to do what he did at Pinehurst and I was particularly impressed, not just with the physical side of his performance, but also the mental strength he showed over the four days,” he said. “The US Open is a marathon with the potential for disaster lurking on almost every hole and therefore for Martin not only to lead from start to finish, but also to increase his lead from the first round to the last, was extraordinary.”
Woman scores two holes in one – in the same round of golf
Compton is sport's most remarkable athlete
Harrington wants to be Ryder Cup vice-captain
Why China went to war against golf
McDowell hails Portrush Open call
Kaymer completes runaway US Open victory
McGinley was also impressed with Erik Compton, the American who finished in a tie for second with his countryman Rickie Fowler. That earned the 34-year-old, who has undergone two heart transplants, a place in the Masters, as well as setting up the possibility of a Ryder Cup berth. He moved into the top 20, with the top nine automatically picked.
Fowler’s leap to seventh in the standings knocks out Phil Mickelson, who may now have to rely on one of Tom Watson’s wild cards. Mickelson is playing just three more events which count towards US qualifying before the cut-off point at the conclusion of the USPGA Championship on Aug 10. Mickelson has automatically qualified nine times in succession.
The R&A confirmed in a press conference at Royal Portrush on Monday that the Dunluce links had been invited to stage an Open again after a break of more than 60 years. The governing body delayed making an announcement on a date with Peter Dawson, the R&A chief executive, saying that “2019 is the earliest it can be but it maybe that we have to wait a year or two longer than that”.
However, despite the work needed to design and build two new holes to accommodate the infrastructure and the fact that the Portrush members must approve the proposal in a formal vote, it is understood that 2019 will be confirmed, once Birkdale and Carnoustie have been announced as 2017 and 2018 hosts respectively.

