US Open 2014: Rory McIlroy says advice from Jack Nicklaus can pay dividends at Pinehurst
By James Corrigan, Golf Correspondent
9:09PM BST 11 Jun 2014
Comments
Rory McIlroy faces the examination of his golfing life thus far, having cribbed off the most successful player in the game’s history. The young Ulsterman believes that two hours spent with Jack Nicklaus last week has left him perfectly prepared for the 114th US Open.
Of course, any time an 18-time major champion is willing to impart advice happens to be a good time. But this Nicklaus tutorial could prove so well-timed for McIlroy as there is a palpable sense here that he is ready to graduate to the next level; the level where he can show the patience and control to prevail in golf’s toughest test and not flunk it in what has become the characteristic fashion of nine mad holes.
It was against the backdrop of a second-round 78 at the Memorial two weeks ago when McIlroy went to Nicklaus for help. When he was a teenager beginning his American adventure, Nicklaus proffered some guidance and told him the door would always be open. McIlroy decided it was again time.
“I said to Jack, it would be great to sit down with you and just talk about things,” McIlroy said. “I had two hours with him in his office last Wednesday and we had a great conversation which I got a lot from,” McIlroy said. “He asked me 'how the hell can you shoot 63 on one day and then a 78 the next [McIlroy’s first two rounds at the Memorial]'. I replied, 'I didn’t mean to, Jack’.
“We talked about mental strength and some of the things he said I’m really thinking about going into this major . He was a great US Open player and hopefully some of those nuggets of wisdom he passed on will help.” Nicklaus won four US Opens, while McIlroy so far has one to his name.
Pinehurst goes back to nature
US Open 2014 predictions
Rose determined to avoid suffering a World Cup ‘own goal’
Campbell a classic victim of his own success
Tragic hero Stewart still casts spell over Pinehurst
McIlroy to play safe at US Open
Except, when he looks at this Pinehurst challenge, on a fast and firm layout which has been restored to its original glory with no rough, but sandy, native areas, McIlroy still feels like a US Open maiden. This is the next step to greatness he is so keen to take.
“The US Open I won [in 2011 at Congressional] was abnormal. It was wet, it was low-scoring,” McIlroy said. “I haven’t won a tournament when it’s been like this. That’s why I’m relishing the challenge. I’d love to be able to prove to myself, but prove to other people that I can win in different conditions. It’s a great opportunity to do that this week.” McIlroy’s bid will begin on the 10th at 7.40am in the company of the 2010 champion Graeme McDowell and the 2012 champion, Webb Simpson. The name of McDowell was one of the whispers on the range, as the nature of the challenge became apparent. With the hard ground and small greens which resemble upturned saucers with their severe run-offs, creativity is going to be more important than length, regardless of the 7,547 yards which, with its par of 70, makes it the longest US Open per shot in history.
“I defy anyone to hit more than 12 greens a day here - 12 greens would be a great ball-striking round,” McDowell said. “Around here there’ll be six, seven, eight scrambling opportunities a day. The guy who scrambles best will win.” Obviously that brings Phil Mickelson into the equation. Indeed, the “new, old Pinehurst” would appear ideal for him finally to break his US Open curse - which has seen him compile a record six runners-up placings - and so become the sixth player to complete the career Grand Slam, joining Nicklaus, Tiger Woods, Gary Player, Gene Sarazen and Ben Hogan in one of the sport’s proudest of clubs.
Yet Mickelson has been out of form and has suffered distractions off the course, chiefly with the recent reports - which he vehemently denies - involving him in an FBI investigation into insider trading. On Wednesday, he spent hours on the practice greens using a “claw” grip which he hopes will effect a radical transformation in his putting. That does not inspire confidence.
Self-belief is a commodity two Englishmen plainly possess. Justin Rose has taken the Merion route as he attempts to become the first back-to-back champion of this major in 25 years, while Ian Poulter feels that his brilliant 66 in the final round at Memphis on Sunday will provide the trigger on a layout which clearly suits his ability around the greens. The Swede Henrik Stenson is another peaking at the right moment and the candidature of the world No 1 Adam Scott is so obvious it barely requires mentioning.
Yet should McIlroy manage to maintain his concentration then North Carolina could witness his third major. Nicklaus has detailed exactly what is required of him and the focus is set.
“One bad stretch of holes really derailed me at the Masters and coming into the second major of the year, I’ll really be trying to keep those runs off my card,” McIlroy said. “Obviously, that’s going to be a lot tougher to do it around a course like Pinehurst, which is the ultimate test. But I do feel more equipped for that. My game’s in good shape and after Wentworth I’ve got a nice bit of confidence.” Ah, Wentworth; McIlroy had never won in conditions like that either. He did not like the course and the spotlights glared in the wake of that week’s revelation that he had split with Caroline Wozniacki after they had already sent out the wedding invitations. McIlroy switched off social media in Surrey and buried himself in his profession. He intends to do so for “the foreseeable future”.
It is purely golf for McIlroy, which is entirely appropriate. Because Pinehurst is pure golf.

