Rafael Nadal v Dudi Sela: as it happened
By Rob Bagchi
11:36AM GMT 23 Jan 2015
- Bouchard: If women twirl men should flex muscles - Federer crashes out of Australian Open - Brilliant Murray cruises into fourth round - The best and worst outfits in Melbourne - Australian Open 2015 schedule: Order of play

Nadal 6-1, 6-0, 7-5 Sela (*denotes next server) Sela has a chance to exploit Nadal's loss of power. His stamina, though he is dripping with sweat, seems fine. Frew McMillan makes the point about Nadal's loss of force and he responds by biffing an unstoppable running forehand winner up the line. A line judge's error, calling a piercing, flighty winner out erroneously prevents Nadal from going 15-30 up and instead Sela unveils a drop volley winner of such subtlety that the crowd (or some of it ...) gasp in sheer delight. Nadal, though, fights back and earns match point. When Sela faults on his first serve Nadal gets his big guns out for the second serve and goes in far too heavy. Deuce again, advantage Nadal and game, set and match won with a fine forehand winner driven up the line of Sela's forehand court. Asked how he would judge himself out of 10, Rafa says "I was never very good at mathematics". It's treated by the crowd as if he'd just acted out the Grieg Piano Concerto sketch with Eric, Ernie and Mr Andrew Preview. Thanks for your company this morning. Bye!
Nadal* 6-1, 6-0, 6-5 Sela (*denotes next server) Sela moves to love-30 and the door opens with Rafa's first service fault but then Nadal plays a wonderful low double-handed shot at the baseline that catches Sela off-balance at the service line. Then Sela earns two break points with a tremendous running backhand crosscourt winner. A 13-shot rally ends with Nadal's flukey winner off the tape, 30-40 then Sela smites a backhand long. Deuce. A third break point with a running forehand winner from Sela. He hasn't taken any of the seven previous ones. And nor does he take this one as Nadal goes very wide with his serve, his left-handedness exploiting the advantage. Nadal closes out the hold with his serve.
Nadal* 6-1, 6-0, 5-5 Sela (*denotes next server) Apologies for that IT meltdown that prevented any updates for the past five games. Sela holds his serve, asking questions of Nadal with some shots with loop in them , the famous moon rocks that are Rafa's Kryptonite.
Nadal 6-1, 6-0, 5-4 Sela* (*denotes next server) Nadal fights back to hold after a successful challenge by Sela stops him winning the game 40-15 on his first serve. But it doesn’t stop him taking it with a second serve to the deuce court to set up a run to the net to power home a forceful back-hand volley winner at chin level.
Nadal* 6-1, 6-0, 4-4 Sela (*denotes next server) Sela’s running through his arsenal, gorgeous drop volley followed by backhand winner. The crowd sing “we love you Dudi, we do”. Or some of them do. Very few actually, but still, convention dictates we report it as “the crowd”. He holds to 15, much t the crowd’s delight. Or some of them. Or very few … you get the b----- drift. Sorry. The IT problems have twitched my donkey as Louis van Gaal would say.
Nadal 6-1, 6-0, 4-3 Sela* (*denotes next server) Little doubt that Nadal has gone off the boil and some of Sela’s moonballs are causing him problems. It’s as if Nadal has suddenly lost the power to really dominate his opponent and the two rallies in this game are among the longest in the match. Sela’s chip down the line earns him two break points but Nadal counters with a banana serve down the centre line, the a serve-whip deep forehand-smash triple combo takes him to deuce. Sela’s unforced error with two-thirds of the court to aim for gives Nadal advantage which is saved by Sela when Nadal overpowers his attempted forehand winner. A volley winner at the net, a deft back-spun winner at face-level wrests back advantage and he closes out the hold with a crisp forehand set-up.
Nadal* 6-1, 6-0, 3-3 Sela (*denotes next server) There are a couple of screams of exasperation from Dudi Sela when he hits unforced errors in the past couple of games. Perhaps he senses that he might be fluffing his chance but then he hits a sumptupous forehand winner up the line after first pinning Nadal in his backhand court. Do unto Nadal as he has done to you.
Nadal 6-1, 6-0, 3-2* Sela (*denotes next server) The improvement in his fortunes and some devil-may-care strokes are bringing momentum to Sela's game. There's a backhand at the net followed by an overhead forehand swished winner that flies past Nadal as he approached. Nadal is taken to 30-all but responds with a peach then Sela makes a gift of the game with an over-ambitious return that sails out.
Nadal* 6-1, 6-0, 2-2 Sela (*denotes next server) Nadal smashes a winner but the margin of his lead has led to a little loss of concentration and he is beginnin to try to force winners, biffing two in succession long to let Sela level the set.
Nadal 6-1, 6-0, 2-1 Sela* (*denotes next server) The insurrection is ruthlessly crushed with imperious force. He's back ... not just in this match but in the tournament and in his career. The backhand is in perfect shape.
Nadal* 6-1, 6-0, 1-1 Sela (*denotes next server) A waft of the hand from Sela after he nets a forehand. It was probably to fend off a moth but the gesture also looked like an opening of the palm to signal bemusement and helplessness. How wrong that interpretation was, though, as he holds to 15 with a couple of Nadal unforced errors and shouts 'Vamos!' then conducts the crowd's cheering. Good lad.
Nadal 6-1, 6-0, 1-0 Sela* (*denotes next server) A chink of light for Sela who earns his first break point as Nadal's radar goes momentarily wonky but he uses that big sliced serve to smother the fightback. Err, then Nadal miscues a forehand into the bottom of the net. Sela's alive! (Say it in Brian Blessed's voice). Bang, bang, advantage Nadal, and he holds on his second serve.
Nadal* 6-1, 6-0 Sela (*denotes next server) Some stats have just flashed up showing that Nadal has hit 20 winners so far before the start of this 13th game. There's anothere here with a fantastic forehand up the lies preceded by a couple of points won by manipulating poor Sela around the court from one side to the next. Sela squares to deuce, though, from three break points down, takes advantage by pushing Nadal very wide with his serve that the Spaniard booms miles out. One step forward (five points on the trot) then Nadal biffs another forehand winner off Sela's attempt to drive it up the line, pounces on his second serve to seize advantage but Sela defends it with a whipped crosscourt forhand that sets him up for a high volley that pushes Nadal too deep. He's got all the shots, Sela, but is comprehensively outgunned, both in athleticism and power. A bow and arrow is aesthetically pleasing but not much use against an M26 Pershing tank. Bagel follows breadstick. What else is in the baker's oven?
Nadal 6-1, 5-0 Sela* (*denotes next server) He's got a hard heart, Nadal, challenging (correctly) when Sela's scrambling baseline crosscourt backhand 'winner' is called in. The crowd groans when Hawk-Eye shows it was an inch out. Sela gives him a look to say: "Give me a break!" Which makes Nadal smile but not more charitable, holding to love.
Nadal* 6-1, 4-0 Sela (*denotes next server) Oh dear. Jokes in the commenatry box about someone calling 'Taxi!' in the crowd. Much mirth ensues. If they did, though, Sela responds with a toe-to-toe long rally until he wastes a chance to fire a winner down the line with his forehand and instead tests out Nadal's backhand which fizzes down the other line. From opening to having the door slammed in your face in two shots. Nadal breaks to 15. My, he's playing well.
Nadal 6-1, 3-0 Sela* (*denotes next server) Held to 15. His serve, the one part of his game that when it isn't precision perfect lets lesser opponents have a chance, is at its best tonight. The point won by Sela, though, was one to treasure, a monster running crosscourt forehand.
Nadal* 6-1, 2-0 Sela (*denotes next server) A wild shot by Sela when the ball kicks up higher than he expected from a Nadal mishit. He absolutely whacks it several feet beyond the tramlines then Nadal plays the shot of the match, arguably the shot of his year so far, a flicked forehand at his toes with a racket pointing down as if the little hand on a clock pointing at seven. He's flying tonight and breaks Sela to 30.
Nadal 6-1, 1-0 Sela* (*denotes next server) Held easily by Nadal - sadly unseen by me as my feed switched to an interview with Kevin Anderson. Apologies. We're back now, though.
Nadal* 6-1 Sela (*denotes next server) This is a different Nadal from the one on Wednesday, firing a brilliant forehand return up the line, then coming to the net to volley to move to 15-40 and earn two set points. He takes the first of them with a forehand winner from baseline to baseline, hit with such whip and dip that Sela cannot do anything about it.
Nadal 5-1 Sela* (*denotes next server) Nadal's big slice second serve at 160kmh sets up a delightful forehand winner form the baseline with his second shot to go to 40-15 but then Sela plays his shot of the match, a running lob volley that forces Nadal to backpedal from the net. He gets there but frames his attempted backhand. Nadal saves to 30.
Nadal* 4-1 Sela (*denotes next server) Much better from Sela, winning to love, including a nice little drop shot, a sweetly-spun backhand and using the dimensions to force even the Scrambler Supreme into an impossible angle to try to hit a running crosscourt forehand winner at the net that just, only just, went wide of the paint. Sela at last smiles as he sits down. That was good to see.
Nadal 4-0 Sela* (*denotes next server) Kevin Anderson has defeated Richard Gasquet on Showcourt No2. Is it wrong to hear Strangers in the Night whenever the commentator calls Seal by his first name, Dudi? Doobee, doobee, doo ... exchanging glances. Nadal holds to 15, polishing it off with his first ace. Sela is clearly struggling with understandable apprehension and the sheer size of the court.
Nadal* 3-0 Sela (*denotes next server) Again Nadal uses the two-handed backhand to set up a winner at the net, going crosscourt and fizzing it low. Then Sela suddenly sparks with an ace followed by a high-back hand volley to counter a lob and set up his own crosscourt winner. Thirty-all. Nadal earns break point and takes the game with a gorgeous forehand winner up the line.
Nadal 2-0 Sela* (*denotes next server) Two brilliant backhand winners help Nadal to 40-love. The low bounce invites him to stoop to conquer which shows there's nothing wrong with his flexibility or lower back. He takes the game to 15 with a fine forehand into Sela's forehand court after throwing a shape to wrongfoot his opponent.
Nadal* 1-0 Sela (*denotes next server) Straight off Nadal challenges correctly and forces Sela to serve again and nets his second shot after a fierec Nadal return. The Israeli looks very nervy. Nadal opted to receive and immediately takes advantage of an under-pressure player to race into a 0-40 lead but then Sela saves three break points, the last two with that majestic single-handed backhand. He reads the bounce well. The best rally comes at deuce, a point Nadal wins with a gorgeous crosscourt forehand winner hit with the force of a steamhammer. Sela saves a fourth break point then has to try to lob with Nadal advancing when he is forced out wide setting the No3 up for a booming forehand winner. Nadal takes his fifth break point chance when Sela goes down the line and nets. There's some concern about how short Nadal is leaving hs forehands after such a length lay-off. Certain sign of court rust on his once impeccable groundstrokes. His backhand, howerver, is in the groove.
9.33am Time has been called. It's 20C compared with yesterday's 35C. Sela will serve.
9.29am The players are knocking up. Nadal is wearing pink again. Give us a twirl, Rafa. The teasmade, cuddly toy, cheese fondue. Good game, good game. Nice to see you, to see you nice. Nothing for a pair, not in this game. Lower than a 10? I'm in charge!
9.25am Good morning. So, Roger Federer, the No2 seed, departed this morning, Andy Murray advanced in a three-set victory and it's time to see where Rafa Nadal is headed in this third-round match against Dudi Sela after that scare against Tim Smyczek. Nadal has never played the 106th-ranked Israeli before. We know that Sela is very speedy around the court, has a decent backhand but, in normal circumstances, should not stand a cat in hell's chance. Let's just hope there isn't an encore from that screaming idiot who marred Nadal's last match.

