London 2012 Olympics: modern pentathlon star Heather Fell cannot face prospect of missing out on final shot at gold
By Graham Clutton
6:34PM BST 05 Apr 2012
Comments
“I overtook this lorry, looked across and saw my face on the side of the wagon,” she recalled, with a laugh. “I nearly hit the central reservation.”
If the notion of seeing yourself projected 20ft high to thousands of motorists seems unnerving, there are no such fears for Fell, one of Britain’s finest modern pentathletes.
The 29 year-old’s road to fame has not been without its twists: from its unlikely origins growing up on a Devon farm to seeing her funding stripped away in 2006 before, two years later, having a silver medal placed around her neck in Beijing.
Now she faces arguably her greatest challenge — booking a place in the women’s squad at London 2012 for what will possibly be her final chance to win Olympic gold.
For that she needs to shine in her next World Cup Series competition, in the Russian city of Rostov from April 19. The final squad will be announced at the end of the month.
Modern pentathlon guide
London 2012 Olympics: Modern Pentathlon schedule
Cooke wins junior world title
UIPM 'very satisfied' with Greenwich Park
“I’m not there yet, but would love to be,” said Fell, speaking after one of her gruelling training sessions which included a 50-length swim, an hour’s épée fencing and shooting practice.
“I have worked hard for a long time now and to miss out would be well, let’s just say I don’t want to think about it.”
Heather Fell poses for a magazine shoot
Fell’s concerns are understandable. British women’s strength in depth in modern pentathlon — a demanding enough event in any case, requiring excellence in pistol shooting, cross-country running, épée fencing, freestyle swimming and show jumping — is extraordinary and yet there are only two places available in the women’s team.
Fell is battling for a place alongside the likes of Mhairi Spence and Samantha Murray to join Freyja Prentice, who has already qualified, and there can be no slacking in her preparations.
It has always been this way.
From the family home in Tavistock, where she would ride horses and use the surrounding fields as a makeshift cross-country course, to the gymnasium at Brunel University and swimming pools of Bath, it has been an exhausting journey.
“I cringe when I think what I’ve gone through over the past 20 years,” she said.
“The hours, miles and sacrifices made. Then, in 2006, I was injured and lost my funding. They were tough times.
"However, it was worth it in 2008 and I would like to think I will see some reward this year. But that’s up to me. It’s in my hands now, I just need to perform.”
Having sampled all five disciplines by the time she left school, either on the farm or at the various after-school clubs that her parents, the former amateur jump jockeys Nick and Doreen, actively encouraged her to join, Fell appeared to be heading towards a senior career in swimming.
From the age of 13, she swam seven days a week, sometimes twice a day.
“It was by far my strongest sport as a youngster and I really enjoyed it — even getting up at 5.30am every day.
"It was my mum or dad who needed the alarm clock. There were mornings when I would be sat in the car waiting for them to come downstairs.
“Looking back, however, I think it was that laid-back attitude towards my sport that helped me stay with it for so long.
"There was never any pressure, they were never rushing me to training or forcing me to go. I led the way by getting up and getting ready and they would follow, making sure I was there on time. I will be forever grateful to them for that.”
Tried and tested: Heather Fell in action at Greenwich Park
Fell proved equally prodigious in modern pentathlon, winning two gold medals at the World Junior Championships in 2003, but her switch from Brunel University to Bath in 2006, on the recommendation of her coaches, checked her progress.
Her funding was cut because a series of shin injuries had prevented her from competing and she eventually returned, chastened, to the family home in Tavistock.
“I couldn’t afford to live in Bath and basically wasn’t welcome there, so I went back home to make a decision about what to do next.”
Going home posed a whole new challenge. She took up three part-time jobs, as a swimming coach, a barmaid and a physiotherapist, and returned to training at the local pony club.
“I have never been afraid of hard work, so working behind the bar was not too difficult for me,” she said. “I actually quite enjoyed it. It made a change. I never saw any of it as a chore.”
Even so, pulling pints must seem very distant now. The arrival of the Olympics has opened up myriad commercial opportunities for Team GB’s hopefuls, and not just on the side of articulated lorries.
Fell is also cultivating a budding media career, having started working for local television programmes in the West Country. “It’s something I would love to do after I retire from the pentathlon, I have found it really rewarding,” she said.
“It was nice to be on the other side of the camera.”
For now, all that can wait. Reaching London dominates Fell’s every waking moment and while the challenge is daunting, her competitive streak is finely honed.
“I remember at school when we had inter-house cross-country runs, everyone else would be trying to get out of it.
"I would be stood on the start line waiting for the off while the other girls were explaining to the teachers why they had forgotten their kit. I loved it all — and I still do.”

