How to keep on track
Matt Roberts
7:30AM GMT 03 Jan 2012
Comments
You may not have given much thought to your breathing while running, beyond the mental note of “Thank God, I still am!” But, as with training your legs or mobilising your body, appropriate breathing techniques will help maximise your overall running performance.
The ability to take in the oxygen that your body demands in response to the challenges that you give it defines how well you run, how much you enjoy it, and how you will improve as a runner.
If you find yourself gasping at air and tensing your chest and shoulders to do so, or lifting your head in a desperate reach for oxygen, your posture will be damaged and your running efficiency destroyed.
Breathing should come from the diaphragm and the lungs, so that you feel your upper stomach move as you breathe in and out. Tensing the abdominal muscles might feel as though you are supporting a good upright stance, but you are also limiting your ability to expand the lungs as well as you perhaps could.
Practise your breathing while sitting still and feel for the movement of the upper stomach area, beneath the base of the sternum (breast bone). Try to let it move naturally as you breathe, without forcing it. As you run, the relaxation of this point of the body will enable the potential of the lungs to be reached and will reduce the likelihood of muscular tension building up in the shoulders, chest and neck areas – common problems for many runners.
Matt Roberts: Get into your stride: the only thing stopping you is you
I'm in this for the long run
On your marks... Get ready to run
If you can control your breathing while standing or sitting, you can do so while running, too. As you run, try to resist the temptation to rigidly hold the stomach tight. If your stomach muscles are strong enough already, they will be holding your posture in place without you thinking hard about it anyway.
Think of breathing as your fuel. Controlled breathing allows your body to recover quickly while you are pushing yourself farther or faster. Tell yourself that the oxygen that you bring into your body in a controlled (rather than a rushed) way will re-energise your muscles quickly, allowing you to keep pushing harder again soon.
Technique is about control rather than force, and breathing is no exception. Controlled breathing may not feel relaxed at first – as you start a running routine you may well feel as though the lack of your lungs’ ability to cope with the workload leaves you tense and struggling. In the very short term, this could be difficult to avoid entirely, but you may simply need to slow down a little and focus on your form before you try to push too fast or too far.
ARE YOU BREATHING PROPERLY?
How many strides do you take for one breath in and for one breath out again? Don’t know? This is your “breathing/stride cadence ratio”. Next time you run, listen to the number of steps that you take as you breathe in and out and remember the pattern that you take naturally. While everyone varies slightly, I find that the following patterns work well for most people:
Slow Running
3–4 strides to breathe in
3–4 strides to breathe out
Medium pace
3 strides to breathe in
1–2 strides to breathe out
Fast pace
2 strides to breathe in
1–2 strides to breathe out
As you increase your running pace, your body clearly needs more oxygen and will react by breathing faster and faster to keep up with the demand. This response is automatic; however, you will still be able to dictate the pace of your breathing within a narrow range.
You must find the pattern that works for you. I prefer to use an even breathing-to-stride pattern as I find it easier to regulate with the rhythm of the stride pattern.
If you find, in using a pattern of four strides for your breathing, that you are tensing your shoulders or neck, then you need to reduce the pattern or slow down your running speed. You need to regulate your breathing while always trying to keep as close as possible to a state of homeostasis (everything remaining the same) in the whole body.
Using your stride speed as a metronome for your breathing can become strangely hypnotic, and is a good way of keeping your mind occupied as you run. The process of counting while listening to your breathing is a great distraction, while the compelling and almost obsessive nature of it will make you want to search out the breathing patterns that are best suited to you.
IS YOUR PACE UNDER CONTROL?
Getting your pace right for any given distance of run is one of the hardest things to do, with failure to do so the reason for so many race-day disasters.
Pacing is all about practice and repetition so that you get to know how your body feels and performs at different intensities and in different situations. All too often, we hear stories of how a runner went off too quickly feeling good and then eventually felt the effect of their efforts and finished the event slowly or, even worse, couldn’t finish the race at all.
Race day is not the day to test out how hard you can push yourself. That should be done during training and in a controlled manner.
Generally speaking, pacing is all about heart rate. While you are building up to being able to comfortably cover your chosen distance, pacing is about making sure that you are working at a good “aerobic” intensity, where your body can comfortably supply you with the constant supply of energy that you need to carry out the work.
If you are running beyond 10K, pacing is all about constantly looking at working within your comfort zone on the long runs and making sure that your body becomes more and more used to the distance, while always watching that you don’t let your heart rate cross over into the anaerobic zone, where you will run out of energy quickly.
Initially, you should use your heart rate as a guide, before you start to look at your “mile splits” (the time it takes you to complete a mile). Many good club-runners will work all their run strategies around mile splits. You may, for example, find that you can cope very well at eight minutes per mile and, from experience, a 7.5 minute mile pace is just too fast. I like to work with a combination of mile splits and heart rates because I feel it gives me the most accurate gauge of whether I’m having a good or a bad day.
For shorter distance events, you can afford to let your heart rate ride higher and be at the top end of your aerobic zone (and almost into your anaerobic zone). This is called anaerobic threshold running. The fitter you are, the longer you will be able to hold this level for; and the more you train at this level, the better the body becomes at reacting to this intensity.
What you always have to remember is that you can’t get it right all of the time. Even those of us with years of experience have those race days where you get a bit excited or competitive and end up pushing too hard and blowing up. That’s part of racing and running!
WHAT’S THE PERFECT PACE FOR YOU?
A great training routine for mastering pacing is called “Out and Back”. The idea is to find a flat route that is half the length of your event and to run at race pace for that distance. Complete the distance and record the time. Then you must run back along the same route, aiming to get back in the same time or less. If you have paced it right, you will get back in the same time or will improve your time. If you paced it wrong, it will take you longer to get back. Continually practising this type of little routine will help you get your pacing spot on for race day.
FREE THIS SATURDAY WITH THE TELEGRAPH
The Matt Roberts New Year Fitness Plan, a seven-part course, begins this weekend with a booklet (Saturday) and DVD (Sunday) free inside your Telegraph. Then collect nutrition and exercise cards every day next week.
Get Running by Matt Roberts (Quadrille, RRP £12.99) is available from Telegraph Books at £11.99 +£1.25 p&p. Call 0844 871 1515 or visit books.telegraph.co.uk

