http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/669313/s/44a6cd97/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Ccompetitions0Cpremier0Eleague0C114873450CTottenham0EHotspur0E40ELeicester0ECity0E30Ematch0Ereport0EHarry0EKane0Ehat0Etrick0Eseals0Evictory0Bhtml/story01.htm
Tottenham Hotspur 4 Leicester City 3, match report: Harry Kane hat-trick seals victory
By Matt Law, at White Hart Lane
5:25PM GMT 21 Mar 2015
Comments
Harry Kane scored two goals in 15 appearances while on loan at Leicester City in 2013. On Saturday afternoon, the striker had been credited with two goals in under 15 minutes against the Foxes and left the pitch with the match ball after netting his first Premier League hat-trick.
Roy Hodgson made one of the easiest decisions of his England reign by including Kane in his squad for the Lithuania and Italy games. The logical next step would be to hand the 21-year-old his first start.
• Harry Kane named in England squad
Gary Lineker was the last Tottenham player to reach 30 goals in all competitions in the 1991/92 season. Kane is now just one short of hitting that particular milestone.
“If you see the English strikers, Harry is on the top,” said Tottenham head coach Mauricio Pochettino. “It was his first hat-trick in the Premier League, so I’m very pleased for him. It’s true he’s in a very good moment in his career.”
Harry Kane celebrates his first Spurs goal
Kane’s goals have maintained Tottenham’s outside hopes of qualifying for the Champions League. Without him, Spurs would be in mid-table and their defensive mistakes would be costing them dear.
Pochettino’s team have not kept a clean sheet since January 31. In the 10 games since shutting out West Bromwich Albion, Tottenham have now conceded 20 goals.
They allowed bottom-of-the-table Leicester to come back from two goals behind and even let the visitors back in after Jeff Schlupp had scored a late own-goal.
Right-back Kyle Walker was unfortunate to injure his own goalkeeper Hugo Lloris in just the second minute, but his day started badly and got gradually worse. Central defender Jan Vertonghen displayed his vulnerability.
Hugo Lloris was forced off after colliding with Kyle Walker
“I was angry because we conceded two goals after 2-0 and after 4-2 we conceded after 90 minutes,” said Pochettino. “We need to improve defensively, it’s part of the process.
“I’m a little bit worried, but it’s not just the goalkeeper or the defence, it’s a collective problem. This is where we need to improve in the next few games.”
On the Lloris injury, Pochettino added: “He’s in hospital with the doctor and we wait for news. He got a big cut on the tendon of his knee. We hope it’s nothing big.”
If ever there was proof that everything Kane touches turns to gold, or goals, then it came when he doubled Tottenham’s lead in the 13th minute.
Everything Kane touches turns to goals
Kane mishit his shot after Walker’s cross fell into his path, but the ball ricocheted off Robert Huth and flew into the top corner of the net.
Having scored with both feet, his head and off the opposition this season, it would be no surprise if Kane literally hits the back of the net with his backside before the season ends.
It remains to be seen whether he is allowed to keep the deflected second goal, but the Tottenham stadium announcer was pretty sure who he was awarding it to as White Hart Lane sang ‘He’s one of our own’.
There was certainly no doubt about Kane’s opening goal that came in just the sixth minute. An Andros Townsend corner was flicked on by Eric Dier and Kane side-footed the ball through the legs of Esteban Cambiasso and into the net.
Leicester goalkeeper Kasper Schmeichel chomps down on the ball
Having been caught in the knee by Walker and taken off the pitch on a stretcher, Lloris was replaced by Michel Vorm and Tottenham’s back-up goalkeeper was almost caught out by a speculative effort from David Nugent but managed to recover his position to save.
It should have been a comfortable afternoon for Spurs, but they rarely make life easy for themselves and let Leicester back in after Christian Eriksen had hit the post.
Nugent was allowed time and space on the right to cross and picked out Jamie Vardy, who raced away from Walker to poke the ball into the net. It took a superb challenge from Danny Rose to stop Nugent equalising on the stroke of half-time.
Pochettino marched down the tunnel with a frown on his face, but his stern half-time words did not have the desired effect as Leicester were level five minutes into the second period.
David Nugent scored a third for Leicester in the 90th minute
Spurs thought they had survived a scare when Leonardo Ulloa teed up Nugent, but his close-range effort deflected over the bar off Walker. From the resulting Matty James corner, however, Wes Morgan was left unmarked to equalise with his head.
Robert Huth headed inches wide, before Spurs were awarded a generous penalty that infuriated Foxes manager Nigel Pearson. Ryan Mason played Rose into the area and he went down under a challenge from Nugent. Referee Mike Dean paused before pointing to the spot and Kane, unsurprisingly, made no mistake.
The home side’s fourth goal came late on as Schmeichel saved from Eriksen, but the ball rebounded off Schlupp and bounced into the net.
Tottenham still did their best to throw it away as Nugent set up a grandstand finish after barging past Vertonghen and firing past Vorm, but Kane’s heroics had once again proved to be enough.
