http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/571333/s/28db7b64/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cwomen0Cwomens0Elife0C988880A60COscar0EPistorius0Ewomen0Eare0Erightly0Efurious0Ethat0Ehes0Efreed0Eon0Ebail0Bhtml/story01.htm
Oscar Pistorius: women are rightly furious that he's freed on bail
By Jacquelin Magnay, Olympics Editor
5:49PM GMT 22 Feb 2013
So we are all supposed to be happy that the sobbing shrunken man who has appeared for the past four days before a South African judge is able to bypass confinement and walk out of court.
Oscar Pistorius may even start training on Monday, his coach reckons.
Pistorius' supporters in court yelled tasteless encouragement when the judge said the Blade Runner would be granted bail, ostensibly because he wasn't a flight risk and there was no evidence he had a tendency to violence.
But just in case, the judge ordered Pistorius hand in all of his weapons, including the machine gun he had on hand. He upped the bail to 1 million rand and imposed twice weekly reporting conditions.
Pistorius won't be allowed outside of Pretoria without the court's permission and he is prevented from returning to his home or contacting people on his estate.
Big trouble in the land that believes in miracles
An agonising wait, then tears as Pistorius is bailed
Pistorius trial could be a year or more away
Testosterone claims may alert anti-drug bodies
Oscar Pistorius: bail hearing day 4 as it happened
The Blonde is the victim here, Blade
Yet, despite all of these restrictions, I find this all distasteful and awkward.
I still can't fathom a judicial system that allows Pistorius, who has admitted to killing his girlfriend, Reeva Steenkamp, not once with a stray bullet, but with multiple shots through a locked door, to enjoy his freedom. How many other South Africans without the connections, money and status of Pistorius enjoy such benefit?
When the news broke I tweeted my thoughts that I found it difficult to reconcile how a woman who was shot four times, dies, and the guy who did it gets bail. Immediately I was flooded with reactions agreeing with me: all of them from women.
The men? Well one man tweeted that Pistorius has the right to be innocent until declared guilty. Another pointed out that in Islington a pregnant woman was stabbed and her attacker got bail - highlighting that the judicial systems of the UK and South Africa may not be so different after all. Another added a witty riposte to the bail conditions that he must refrain from drugs and alcohol, noting that rules out swimming (in Australia which has exposed a recent drugs, alcohol and bullying culture at the London Olympics).
So there we have the instant court of Twitter (and it’s not sweet) opinion showing that on this one, we may be divided along the gender lines. Perhaps, ladies, our only hope in the relentless battle to combat violence against women is to have a female judge.
