Rory McIlroy and Rickie Fowler neck and neck after opening round of Abu Dhabi HSBC Golf Championship
By James Corrigan, Golf Correspondent, in Abu Dhabi
10:18AM GMT 15 Jan 2015
Comments
It was, as Rory McIlroy said with a smirk, “the shot of the year” and while the game of golf eagerly anticipates the magic moments of 2015 there was no doubting the quality of the wedge which rescued his first round of the season.
After 11 holes, McIlroy was in danger of a flat opening to the Abu Dhabi HSBC Championship, particularly as his drive finished in the thick stuff on the edge of the bunker. When McIlroy walked up to see the predicament his heart dropped. But with one leg in the trap and the other outside it, McIlroy somehow conjured a “hooded” shot which amazed everyone who saw it.
The ball came to rest within 12 feet of the hole and from there the birdie was somewhat inevitable. Six holes and four more birdies later and he was signing for a five-under 67, two behind the early leader from Belgium, Thomas Pieters, and, perhaps just as pertinently, on the same mark as his playing partner, Rickie Fowler.
“That was the catalyst - it gave me the momentum I needed to play well coming in,” McIlroy said, clearly intent on winning an event which he has finished second in on three occasions. “It was very awkward and was a shot I would never practise. My aim was to just get it anywhere on the green and to make par. But from feeling I could go one-over to going one-under was a great boost. I needed something like that as up to that point I’d been watching Ricke making all those birdies and I’d been struggling.”
McIlroy was uncharacteristically poor with the driver all day and admitted that “it is something I will have to do better if I want to have a chance here”. Expect him to improve with the big club as very rarely does he misfire two days running. If the mark of a good player is getting the most out of an average round then this was but mere confirmation of this man’s talent and bodes so well as he embarks off on a new campaign which could rubber-stamp his legend.
Watch: Golf's first ever underwater hole-in-one
Fowler backs Couples for US Ryder Cup role
McIlroy: My 2015 goals are on back of boarding pass
The strange world of Florida’s golf cart city
“To shoot 67 on the first round of the year is nice, but how I got to that 67 was not so glamorous,” McIlroy said. “But although I didn't drive well and need to work on it, I was really pleased with my shortgame and the way I scored. My ball-striking wasn’t anywhere near as good as it’s been the last few weeks but there was only one bogey and this is a good score to build on. Playing with Rickie helped kick me on.”
Fowler seemed about to kick clear of his friend and rival when he was three-under after 11. But a bogey on his last hole (the par-four ninth) after he flew the green, brought the American back to five-under. However, it was his first competitive round here at the Abu Dhabi Golf Club and he was more than content.
“To start making memories over here, I couldn’t ask for a whole lot more,” Fowler said. Neither could the organisers after a beautiful morning with the big names high on the leaderboard.

