http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569027/s/2fa3e646/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Ccompetitions0Cleague0Ecup0C10A2271160CHuddersfield0ETown0E20EBradford0ECity0E10Ematch0Ereport0Bhtml/story01.htm
Huddersfield Town 2 Bradford City 1: match report
By Jason Mellor
10:40PM BST 06 Aug 2013
Comments
Bradford City’s odyssey in last season’s competition captured the imagination and earned them national prominence, but there will be no sequel to the fairytale.
Premier League sides may have proved little impediment to their progress last season, but this time they took their leave of the Capital One Cup at the first hurdle against Championship opposition.
Where Arsenal, Aston Villa and Wigan Athletic all failed, Huddersfield found a way to inflict on their Yorkshire rivals a first League Cup tie defeat in two years outside Wembley.
This reversal was rather less clearcut than their five-goal chastening at the hands of Swansea City, as a side starting with four survivors of that February afternoon, with another four on the bench, were narrowly beaten, courtesy of goals from James Vaughan, one of the finest forwards outside the top flight when he can stay fit, either side of half-time.
The former Norwich City player, whose goals while on loan from Carrow Road last season proved to be Huddersfield’s Championship salvation, found the bottom corner from
Steward trampled by horse in pitch invasion
Ince: will it take a stabbing to force change?
FA and police look into Deepdale pitch invasion
Bradford back on the Wembley trail
Newport set for Brighton trip
How Welsh football has cleaned up
18 yards three minutes before the interval, as Bradford failed to clear. Vaughan doubled his tally nine minutes into the second half with an equally eye-catching finish, engineering space in the box to apply a powerful header from substitute Adam Hammill’s inviting centre.
Backed by almost 4,000 travelling fans, Bradford carried their greatest threat on the break. But they had to wait until the 90th minute to find the net through a fine long-range effort from substitute Nahki Wells.
Huddersfield Town (3-5-2): Smithies; Clarke, Gerrard (Wallace 84), Lynch; Hunt (Hammill 46), Hogg, Norwood, Clayton, Carroll; Paterson, Vaughan (Stead 63). Subs Bennett, Scannell, Lopez, Ward. Booked Clayton.
Bradford City (4-4-2): McLaughlin; Darby, Taylor (Meredith 64), Doyle, McHugh; De Vita (Wells 63), Kennedy, Ravenhill, Reid; Thompson, Connell (Hanson 63). Subs Ripley, Davies, Yeates, Jones.
Referee M Haywood (West Yorkshire).
