BBC Sport - Queens Park Rangers 1-2 Everton
Vargas 65′
Coleman 18′ Lennon 77′
Everton won away from home in the Premier League for the first time since 31 January
22 March 2015 Last updated at 18:32
Aaron Lennon scored his first goal for Everton as they beat a spirited QPR side at Loftus Road and eased concerns about Premier League relegation.
Right-back Seamus Coleman had put the Toffees ahead in the first half with a clinical finish on the counter attack.
QPR equalised when substitute Eduardo Vargas profited from some lax Everton defending at a corner to fire home.
Winger Lennon, on loan from Tottenham, struck the winner for the visitors when he slotted in from close range.
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Everton adaptability pleases Roberto Martinez
The result moved Everton nine points clear of the drop zone and up to 13th place, while QPR are four points adrift of safety in 19th spot.
After a spectacular European thumping at the hands of Dynamo Kiev last week, Everton have just top-flight survival to focus on in the remainder of the campaign.
It is a stark contrast to Roberto Martinez's debut season in charge last term when Everton were challenging for a Champions League place and ultimately finished fifth.
Indeed, a section of Everton fans made their dissatisfaction towards their manager abundantly clear on Saturday with graffiti daubed on one of the stands at Goodison Park which said "Martinez out" and "not good enough".
The 41-year-old Spaniard showed the writing is not on the wall yet, though, as his side displayed plenty of character to win at Loftus Road and ease some of the tension in the aftermath of their Europa League elimination.
Everton's victory also left QPR manager Chris Ramsey without a single point from his four home games in charge.
QPR have lost five consecutive league games at home and are without a victory in seven matches at Loftus Road
Ramsey was handed the QPR job until the end of the season following Harry Redknapp's decision to resign to have a knee operation, but the former Academy coach had been unable to spark an upturn in results.
QPR have lost six and won just once since Redknapp left and unless Ramsey can galvanise his players in the last eight games, an immediate return to the Championship beckons.
The home side showed early intent but fell behind when they were caught on the counter attack in the 18th minute.
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Chris Ramsey sees positives despite QPR defeat
Lennon and Leon Osman combined well and the latter's composed pass on the edge of the penalty area found the overlapping run of Coleman who saw his angled shot go in off the post.
QPR went close when Charlie Austin teased a cross into the six-yard box on the half-hour mark for Bobby Zamora, but the veteran forward could not generate enough power with his headed effort.
The home side showed greater urgency straight after half-time and Junior Hoilett's spectacular curling effort from distance rattled the crossbar.
QPR's pressure told and they equalised five minutes after the hour mark when Everton failed to clear a Matty Phillips corner. Charlie Austin miscontrolled the loose ball but Chile winger Vargas reacted and fired high into the net at the back post.
However, Everton regained the lead when QPR defender Nedum Onuoha only half-cleared Coleman's cross and Lennon, who joined on loan from Spurs on deadline day in February, was on hand to tap the ball home from close range.
Adel Taarabt struck the crossbar in injury time as QPR went in search of equaliser, but Everton held on to secure the points.
QPR boss Chris Ramsey:
"It is very disappointing to lose. I'm hoping it can be showed how well the boys played and fought for the club. How we have not come away with three points is unbelievable.
"Fortunately for us the other clubs around us haven't won and it keeps us within touching distance. We need to keep playing like that until the end of the season.
"I think we can get out of it, other teams have done that in the past. Had we gone out there with apathy and not played how we did then it would be different."
Everton manager Roberto Martinez:
"That was an outstanding performance in terms of greed and the personality we needed to adapt to that type of game.
"QPR have been unfortunate at home this season, have created chances and today the result could have gone either way. We defended very well and scored two outstanding goals.
"The desire and application we showed gives me more satisfaction than any other victory. Now we have to make sure this performance is an incredible platform for the rest of the reason. We need to climb the table as high as we can."
Seamus Coleman scored his fifth goal of the season at Loftus Road
John Stones returned at the heart of Everton's defence after sitting out the 5-2 loss to Dynamo Kiev
Bobby Zamora thought he had notched his third goal of the season but was flagged for offside
Eduardo Vargas's only other goal this season came against Everton's Merseyside rivals Liverpool
QPR boss Chris Ramsey, right, has yet to win a single point at Loftus Road
Full Time Match ends, Queens Park Rangers 1, Everton 2.
Full Time Second Half ends, Queens Park Rangers 1, Everton 2.
Booking Steven Naismith (Everton) is shown the yellow card.
Offside, Everton. Ross Barkley tries a through ball, but Steven Naismith is caught offside.
Adel Taarabt (Queens Park Rangers) hits the bar with a right footed shot from the right side of the box. Assisted by Steven Caulker.
Attempt missed. Steven Caulker (Queens Park Rangers) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left. Assisted by Mauricio Isla with a cross.
Karl Henry (Queens Park Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by James McCarthy (Everton).
Foul by Karl Henry (Queens Park Rangers).
Ross Barkley (Everton) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt blocked. Charlie Austin (Queens Park Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Joey Barton.
Offside, Everton. Tim Howard tries a through ball, but Steven Naismith is caught offside.
Delay over. They are ready to continue.
Delay in match Darron Gibson (Everton) because of an injury.
Attempt missed. Adel Taarabt (Queens Park Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right. Assisted by Charlie Austin.
Corner, Everton. Conceded by Nedum Onuoha.
Substitution Substitution, Queens Park Rangers. Adel Taarabt replaces Bobby Zamora.
Foul by Joey Barton (Queens Park Rangers).
Leon Osman (Everton) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Substitution Substitution, Everton. Steven Naismith replaces Arouna Koné because of an injury.
Delay over. They are ready to continue.
Delay in match Arouna Koné (Everton) because of an injury.
Goal! Goal! Queens Park Rangers 1, Everton 2. Aaron Lennon (Everton) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner.
Joey Barton (Queens Park Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Leon Osman (Everton).
Attempt missed. Charlie Austin (Queens Park Rangers) left footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the left. Assisted by Bobby Zamora.
Foul by Nedum Onuoha (Queens Park Rangers).
Phil Jagielka (Everton) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Bobby Zamora (Queens Park Rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Phil Jagielka (Everton).
Attempt missed. Bobby Zamora (Queens Park Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box is too high.
Substitution Substitution, Queens Park Rangers. Karl Henry replaces Sandro.
Offside, Everton. James McCarthy tries a through ball, but Leighton Baines is caught offside.
Corner, Everton. Conceded by Steven Caulker.
Foul by Eduardo Vargas (Queens Park Rangers).
Aaron Lennon (Everton) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Mauricio Isla (Queens Park Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Ross Barkley (Everton).
Charlie Austin (Queens Park Rangers) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Phil Jagielka (Everton).
Substitution Substitution, Everton. Ross Barkley replaces Romelu Lukaku because of an injury.
Goal! Goal! Queens Park Rangers 1, Everton 1. Eduardo Vargas (Queens Park Rangers) right footed shot from the right side of the six yard box to the high centre of the goal. Assisted by Charlie Austin following a corner.
Attempt blocked. Sandro (Queens Park Rangers) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.
Corner, Queens Park Rangers. Conceded by Darron Gibson.
Attempt blocked. Joey Barton (Queens Park Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Yun Suk-Young.
Attempt blocked. Sandro (Queens Park Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Bobby Zamora.
Delay over. They are ready to continue.
Delay in match Arouna Koné (Everton) because of an injury.
Darron Gibson (Everton) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Sandro (Queens Park Rangers).
Substitution Substitution, Queens Park Rangers. Eduardo Vargas replaces Junior Hoilett.
Offside, Queens Park Rangers. Bobby Zamora tries a through ball, but Charlie Austin is caught offside.
Attempt missed. Darron Gibson (Everton) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. Assisted by Leon Osman.
Booking Yun Suk-Young (Queens Park Rangers) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Aaron Lennon (Everton) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Yun Suk-Young (Queens Park Rangers).
Leighton Baines (Everton) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Matthew Phillips (Queens Park Rangers).
Offside, Queens Park Rangers. Junior Hoilett tries a through ball, but Matthew Phillips is caught offside.
Junior Hoilett (Queens Park Rangers) hits the bar with a right footed shot from outside the box.
Second Half begins Queens Park Rangers 0, Everton 1.
Half Time First Half ends, Queens Park Rangers 0, Everton 1.
Foul by Leighton Baines (Everton).
Mauricio Isla (Queens Park Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Darron Gibson (Everton).
Joey Barton (Queens Park Rangers) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Attempt missed. Matthew Phillips (Queens Park Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the right. Assisted by Joey Barton following a set piece situation.
Foul by John Stones (Everton).
Charlie Austin (Queens Park Rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
James McCarthy (Everton) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Bobby Zamora (Queens Park Rangers).
Booking Junior Hoilett (Queens Park Rangers) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Aaron Lennon (Everton) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Junior Hoilett (Queens Park Rangers).
Attempt missed. Bobby Zamora (Queens Park Rangers) header from very close range misses to the left. Assisted by Charlie Austin with a cross.
Offside, Everton. Darron Gibson tries a through ball, but Aaron Lennon is caught offside.
Foul by Aaron Lennon (Everton).
Joey Barton (Queens Park Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt blocked. Darron Gibson (Everton) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by Romelu Lukaku.
Leon Osman (Everton) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Mauricio Isla (Queens Park Rangers).
Attempt blocked. Charlie Austin (Queens Park Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Matthew Phillips.
Attempt saved. Leon Osman (Everton) right footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. Assisted by Romelu Lukaku.
Delay over. They are ready to continue.
Delay in match Steven Caulker (Queens Park Rangers) because of an injury.
Goal! Goal! Queens Park Rangers 0, Everton 1. Seamus Coleman (Everton) right footed shot from the right side of the box to the top left corner. Assisted by Leon Osman following a fast break.
Foul by Arouna Koné (Everton).
Mauricio Isla (Queens Park Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Seamus Coleman (Everton).
Yun Suk-Young (Queens Park Rangers) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Offside, Everton. Darron Gibson tries a through ball, but Romelu Lukaku is caught offside.
Leighton Baines (Everton) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Joey Barton (Queens Park Rangers).
Hand ball by Arouna Koné (Everton).
Offside, Queens Park Rangers. Charlie Austin tries a through ball, but Bobby Zamora is caught offside.
Attempt missed. Leon Osman (Everton) left footed shot from the centre of the box is just a bit too high. Assisted by Leighton Baines with a cross following a corner.
Corner, Everton. Conceded by Nedum Onuoha.
Attempt blocked. Leighton Baines (Everton) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Romelu Lukaku.
Attempt blocked. James McCarthy (Everton) left footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by Romelu Lukaku.
Offside, Queens Park Rangers. Charlie Austin tries a through ball, but Bobby Zamora is caught offside.
First Half begins.
Lineups are announced and players are warming up.
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
Last updated 22 Mar 2015 UK
View all results
Last updated 22 Mar 2015 UK
View full table
Louis Theroux discusses insanity with a freshly released resident
Mon 23 Mar, 19:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 Live
Women's Super League football, Wed 25 Mar, 19:15 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live sports extra
International football, Wed 25 Mar, 19:45 GMT , BBC Radio 5 live
Catch up with Ski Sunday on the BBC
How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign

