Bayern Mun v Borussia Mönchengladbach
Caetano de Araújo 30′, 77′
Neuer (left) won 500,000 euros for charity on the German version of Who Wants to be a Millionaire in 2012
22 March 2015 Last updated at 20:11
Bayern Munich suffered a first home defeat in 11 months as two mistakes from goalkeeper Manuel Neuer helped Borussia Monchengladbach to a 2-0 win at the Allianz Arena.
Neuer, nominated for the Ballon d'Or in January, allowed shots from Raffael to slip past him either side of half-time.
A disappointing day for Bayern was compounded as Arjen Robben was ruled out for "several weeks" through injury.
The winger tore an abdominal muscle and was forced off after 24 minutes.
Robben will miss Bayern's next game - the 4 April meeting with Borussia Dortmund following the international break - and is a doubt for the Champions League quarter-final first leg against Porto on 15 April.
Despite the defeat, Bayern are 10 points clear at the top of the Bundesliga.
Nearest challengers Wolfsburg could only draw at Mainz earlier in the day, while Monchengladbach moved up to third.
Defeat was Bayern's first at home since being humbled 4-0 in the second leg of their Champions League semi-final by eventual winners Real Madrid in April 2014.
Pep Guardiola's side have scored 20 goals and conceded only two in five successive wins coming into the game, but struggled to break down a disciplined Monchengladbach who made the most of their rare raids forward.
Raffael's shot on the half-hour mark should have been a routine stop for Germany international Neuer, but the ball squirmed through his fingers.
After Neuer saw Andre Hahn's shot hit the woodwork, another glaring error sealed Bayern's fate.
Christoph Kramer set up Raffael at the end of a sweeping Borussia counter-attack and the Brazilian midfielder's shot crept beneath Neuer.
Arjen Robben has scored 19 goals in 28 appearances for Bayern Munich this season
Borussia Monchengladbach are eight points clear of fifth-placed Schalke and well set for Champions League qualification
Full Time Match ends, FC Bayern München 0, Borussia Mönchengladbach 2.
Full Time Second Half ends, FC Bayern München 0, Borussia Mönchengladbach 2.
Foul by Sebastian Rode (FC Bayern München).
Christoph Kramer (Borussia Mönchengladbach) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Bastian Schweinsteiger (FC Bayern München).
Thorgan Hazard (Borussia Mönchengladbach) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Rafinha (FC Bayern München).
Christoph Kramer (Borussia Mönchengladbach) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Substitution Substitution, Borussia Mönchengladbach. Havard Nordtveit replaces Patrick Herrmann.
Corner, Borussia Mönchengladbach. Conceded by Manuel Neuer.
Attempt saved. Max Kruse (Borussia Mönchengladbach) left footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Patrick Herrmann.
Corner, FC Bayern München. Conceded by Martin Stranzl.
Attempt saved. Thomas Müller (FC Bayern München) header from very close range is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Juan Bernat.
Attempt saved. Robert Lewandowski (FC Bayern München) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top left corner. Assisted by Jerome Boateng with a cross.
Attempt saved. David Alaba (FC Bayern München) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Jerome Boateng.
Foul by Robert Lewandowski (FC Bayern München).
Tony Jantschke (Borussia Mönchengladbach) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Substitution Substitution, Borussia Mönchengladbach. Thorgan Hazard replaces Raffael.
Corner, Borussia Mönchengladbach. Conceded by David Alaba.
Foul by Holger Badstuber (FC Bayern München).
Christoph Kramer (Borussia Mönchengladbach) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Goal! Goal! FC Bayern München 0, Borussia Mönchengladbach 2. Raffael (Borussia Mönchengladbach) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the centre of the goal. Assisted by Christoph Kramer.
Sebastian Rode (FC Bayern München) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Granit Xhaka (Borussia Mönchengladbach).
Attempt missed. Robert Lewandowski (FC Bayern München) header from the centre of the box misses to the right. Assisted by Rafinha following a corner.
Corner, FC Bayern München. Conceded by Tony Jantschke.
Attempt saved. Juan Bernat (FC Bayern München) left footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the top left corner. Assisted by Rafinha with a cross.
Foul by Sebastian Rode (FC Bayern München).
Patrick Herrmann (Borussia Mönchengladbach) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Substitution Substitution, Borussia Mönchengladbach. Max Kruse replaces André Hahn.
Attempt saved. André Hahn (Borussia Mönchengladbach) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. Assisted by Martin Stranzl.
Substitution Substitution, FC Bayern München. Philipp Lahm replaces Mario Götze.
Attempt missed. Jerome Boateng (FC Bayern München) left footed shot from outside the box is too high. Assisted by Bastian Schweinsteiger.
Foul by Robert Lewandowski (FC Bayern München).
Tony Jantschke (Borussia Mönchengladbach) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Mario Götze (FC Bayern München).
André Hahn (Borussia Mönchengladbach) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Corner, FC Bayern München. Conceded by Martin Stranzl.
Offside, Borussia Mönchengladbach. Yann Sommer tries a through ball, but Fabian Johnson is caught offside.
Attempt saved. Thomas Müller (FC Bayern München) header from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. Assisted by Rafinha with a cross.
Foul by David Alaba (FC Bayern München).
Patrick Herrmann (Borussia Mönchengladbach) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Substitution Substitution, FC Bayern München. Sebastian Rode replaces Xabi Alonso.
Robert Lewandowski (FC Bayern München) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Patrick Herrmann (Borussia Mönchengladbach).
Offside, Borussia Mönchengladbach. Christoph Kramer tries a through ball, but André Hahn is caught offside.
Rafinha (FC Bayern München) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by André Hahn (Borussia Mönchengladbach).
Foul by Mario Götze (FC Bayern München).
Oscar Wendt (Borussia Mönchengladbach) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Booking André Hahn (Borussia Mönchengladbach) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Xabi Alonso (FC Bayern München) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by André Hahn (Borussia Mönchengladbach).
Attempt missed. Thomas Müller (FC Bayern München) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right. Assisted by Bastian Schweinsteiger.
Hand ball by Bastian Schweinsteiger (FC Bayern München).
Xabi Alonso (FC Bayern München) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Granit Xhaka (Borussia Mönchengladbach).
Second Half begins FC Bayern München 0, Borussia Mönchengladbach 1.
Half Time First Half ends, FC Bayern München 0, Borussia Mönchengladbach 1.
Offside, Borussia Mönchengladbach. Oscar Wendt tries a through ball, but André Hahn is caught offside.
Bastian Schweinsteiger (FC Bayern München) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Granit Xhaka (Borussia Mönchengladbach).
Offside, Borussia Mönchengladbach. André Hahn tries a through ball, but Patrick Herrmann is caught offside.
Attempt missed. David Alaba (FC Bayern München) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right. Assisted by Bastian Schweinsteiger.
Corner, FC Bayern München. Conceded by Tony Jantschke.
Attempt blocked. David Alaba (FC Bayern München) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Jerome Boateng.
Offside, Borussia Mönchengladbach. Christoph Kramer tries a through ball, but Raffael is caught offside.
Delay over. They are ready to continue.
Delay in match Robert Lewandowski (FC Bayern München) because of an injury.
Delay in match Martin Stranzl (Borussia Mönchengladbach) because of an injury.
Attempt blocked. Robert Lewandowski (FC Bayern München) header from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by Thomas Müller.
Foul by Bastian Schweinsteiger (FC Bayern München).
Patrick Herrmann (Borussia Mönchengladbach) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Attempt saved. Bastian Schweinsteiger (FC Bayern München) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner. Assisted by Thomas Müller.
Goal! Goal! FC Bayern München 0, Borussia Mönchengladbach 1. Raffael (Borussia Mönchengladbach) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the centre of the goal. Assisted by Patrick Herrmann.
Offside, FC Bayern München. Juan Bernat tries a through ball, but Mario Götze is caught offside.
Foul by David Alaba (FC Bayern München).
Granit Xhaka (Borussia Mönchengladbach) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Substitution Substitution, FC Bayern München. Thomas Müller replaces Arjen Robben because of an injury.
Delay over. They are ready to continue.
Delay in match Arjen Robben (FC Bayern München) because of an injury.
Booking Tony Jantschke (Borussia Mönchengladbach) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Arjen Robben (FC Bayern München) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Tony Jantschke (Borussia Mönchengladbach).
Arjen Robben (FC Bayern München) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Christoph Kramer (Borussia Mönchengladbach).
Foul by Holger Badstuber (FC Bayern München).
André Hahn (Borussia Mönchengladbach) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Attempt blocked. Mario Götze (FC Bayern München) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Robert Lewandowski.
Foul by Bastian Schweinsteiger (FC Bayern München).
Patrick Herrmann (Borussia Mönchengladbach) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt saved. Arjen Robben (FC Bayern München) header from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. Assisted by Bastian Schweinsteiger with a cross.
Attempt saved. Juan Bernat (FC Bayern München) left footed shot from the left side of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal.
Attempt blocked. Mario Götze (FC Bayern München) left footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by Robert Lewandowski.
Bastian Schweinsteiger (FC Bayern München) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Granit Xhaka (Borussia Mönchengladbach).
First Half begins.
Lineups are announced and players are warming up.
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
Last updated 22 Mar 2015 UK
View all results
Live coverage, news, scores, fixtures, results and tables from La Liga and Europe's top leagues.
Mon 23 Mar, 19:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 Live
Women's Super League football, Wed 25 Mar, 19:15 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live sports extra
International football, Wed 25 Mar, 19:45 GMT , BBC Radio 5 live
Catch up with Ski Sunday on the BBC
How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign

