Floyd Mayweather v Manny Pacquiao: Multi-million pound UK television deal to be announced this week
By Gareth A Davies, Boxing correspondent
12:24AM GMT 17 Mar 2015
Comments
Although Friday was the deadline day set for bids to be finalised for broadcasters to host Floyd Mayweather v Manny Pacquiao in the UK, it is understood the announcement will be made this week.
Telegraph Sport understands that it is a three-way tug-of-war between Sky Sports (Box Office), BoxNation TV, and BT Sport. It is believed that the cost of buying the rights may be around the £10-12m mark.
Signs are strong that Sky will be the winners in the rights war, the deal likely to be a flat fee and a share of the pay per view revenue returned from the broadcast, which is expected to break all Box Office pay-per-view (PPV) records in the UK.
The most ever was 1.2 million PPV viewers in the UK for Ricky Hatton versus Floyd Mayweather, although this event on May 2 is expected to shatter that record, potentially reaching between 1.5 and 1.8 million PPV buys. If the cost were to be set at £20 it would therefore likely generate £30-36m.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
'Even Mayweather looked nervous at scale of fight'
Mayweather lands first psychological blow
Mayweather lands first psychological blow
Mayweather v Pacquiao, LA press conference: as it happened
Mayweather and Pacquiao praised by Usada for voluntary drug -testing
Mayweather and Pacquiao have been praised by the US Anti-Doping Agency for the "strong statement of the importance of clean and safe competition", confirming that the world's two most decorated active fighters have agreed to take part in the Usada testing program for their fight on May 2. Both fighters have agreed to the rules established under the World Anti-Doping Code, the World Anti-Doping Agency (Wada) Prohibited List and the Usada Protocol for Olympic and Paralympic Movement Testing.
“It’s a strong statement of the importance of clean and safe competition to have these two fighters voluntarily agree to have a WADA level anti-doping program implemented for this fight. We commend them for their stand for clean sport and the message it sends to all those who want to compete clean at the highest levels of all sport,” said Usada CEO Travis T. Tygart.

Both fighters have already received education on the Usada program and have enrolled in the Usada Registered Testing Pool by providing their whereabouts information so that they can be located for out-of-competition testing prior to the fight. Usada will also perform in-competition testing after the fight. Both fighters agreed to be subject to both blood and urine testing without reservation. Samples collected by USADA are sent to a Wada-accredited laboratory for analysis in accordance with the world’s best laboratory practices, including testing for human growth hormone (HGH), erythropoietin (EPO), and utilizing carbon isotope ratio (CIR).
Usada and the Nevada State Athletic Commission (NSAC) are working collaboratively on this program and will share all relevant information about the program including all test results. Wada will also be notified of all sample test results.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Legend Julio Cesar Chavez picks Mayweather over Pacquiao
"My heart says Pacquiao, but if I had to bet, I would bet on Floyd Mayweather. Pacquiao is so hungry, so eager to beat Mayweather. I see this as a tough fight for Floyd … if Manny comes out with the aggression, with the killer instinct that we're all used to seeing him with, then he has a shot."
Julio Cesar Chavez Jr., son of the Hall of Famer, shares his father’s view. "I think it's a tough fight, you know ... a little favorite Mayweather, but it's a tough opponent,” Chavez Jr. told Fighthype. [Manny Pacquiao is] the only guy that can beat Mayweather ... [but] I pick Mayweather by decision."
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Freddie Roach: Manny really doesn't like Floyd, and it motivates him
Roach told the Jim Rome Show after two days of training camp, that Pacquiao is motivated on a personal level, not just athletic level, to want to defeat Mayweather.
"I've never seen him dislike an opponent in my life, but you know what, he doesn't like this guy," Roach said. "He won't say anything bad about him, but he won't say anything good about him either. I think this is a perfect opponent."

Roach himself is not a fan of Floyd's ways, either. "Everything has to be his way. He has a comfort zone, like we couldn't say anything about the fight until he announced it. He's very very insecure," said Roach. "He's not that good a guy, I mean he's not a good guy, he's not a good person, he's not a good role model. Like it or not, Jim, he's a role model for kids because people look up to him. But the thing is, I think he's a bad role model for the kids and so forth...that's why I get a little pissed off at him for what he does on TV, it's just crazy and you got these young kids looking up to him, and like Manny is a perfect role model."

