http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/612402/s/442f6a9d/sc/38/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Ceducation0Ceducationopinion0C1145840A30CBoxing0Eboot0Ecamp0Eschool0Ewill0Etransform0Etroubled0Elives0Bhtml/story01.htm
'Boxing boot camp school will transform troubled lives'
By Boarding School Beak
9:53AM GMT 09 Mar 2015
Comments
Amongst 48 new free schools that are expected to be approved by David Cameron today, I’m delighted to see one school, in East London, will be based at a successful "boxing boot camp".
Boxing and schools? At first, all instincts suggest this is not a good idea. Boxing, after all, has a reputation for brutality and blood, Rocky-style slug-outs, which is why it was banned in schools many years ago.
But boxing also teaches self-discipline and anger management; essential qualities that this new school aims to nurture. It is indeed based at an existing charity, the Hackney Boxing Academy, which already has an impressive track record in helping tricky pupils.
This excellent local charity, established in 2007, aims to “change the lives of young people … in danger of educational exclusion.”
It currently operates as a “last resort” for local teenagers who’ve been excluded from other schools for behaviour and anger management issues. Now the Boxing Academy understandably wants to build on its success and set up as a free school proper: thereby opening its doors to sixty teenagers, boys and girls, and offering a full programme of GCSE subjects.
500 new free schools to be created if Conservatives win election
Nicky Morgan: free schools may not be run on for-profit basis
Free schools will stumble – the test is how well they recover
'Free schools deliver benefits'
Using its expertise, teenagers at the proposed new school will learn self-discipline by, for example, having to do press-ups – a common practice in independent schools, during sports training sessions. What’s more, boxing mentors will be sent round to pupils’ houses to wake them up if they’re late for school.
Just imagine. Teenagers missing first period has been a bugbear for every teacher since time immemorial. Remember Shakespeare’s reluctant schoolboy, “creeping like snail unwillingly to school”? Having some brawny boxer turn up on the doorstep first thing in the morning seems sure to drag even the doziest out of bed.
Another feature of this new school that appeals is its plan to teach teenagers in classes of eight: again with a trained boxer leading the session. Once again, this builds on the system already successfully running at the Boxing Academy, where students are mentored by “dedicated boxers”, who can become almost like “father figures”.
Former students, most of whom were expelled from previous schools, are fulsome in their praises. So too are the many testimonials from leading figures, like David Lammy MP for Tottenham, the Academy’s Patron, and Boris Johnson. Surely it makes sense to build on all this success, as inspiration for this new venture?
So I wholeheartedly support this scheme. I’ve seen how doing press-ups can instill keenness and self-discipline on the playing fields of some of Britain’s finest private schools. Not only that, I must be one of the few teachers to have boxed themselves at school.
We loved our weekly boxing sessions, back then: gum shields and padded gloves meant little damage was done. It was an exhilarating, egalitarian activity: probably the most exhausting, yet fulfilling, exercise I have ever taken.
I was disappointed when the school in question later – and rather cravenly – banned the sport. An example of Big Brother going mad on Health and Safety, even then?
I sincerely hope this new boxing-based school is a success. It will, without doubt, transform some troubled teenage lives.
The author teaches English at a top independent boarding school @BoardingBeak
