Barcelona vs Manchester City: Pablo Zabaleta says 'nothing is impossible' ahead of trip to Nou Camp
By Mark Ogden
10:30PM GMT 16 Mar 2015
Comments
Pablo Zabaleta has claimed that Manchester City’s players must drag themselves out of their recent form slump by becoming more “self-critical” as they attempt to salvage their Champions League prospects with a victory against Barcelona on Wednesday.
City travel to the Nou Camp needing to overturn a 2-1 first-leg deficit in order to qualify for the quarter-finals for the first time in the club’s history.
However, with Manuel Pellegrini’s team enduring a fifth defeat in 10 games by losing 1-0 at Burnley at the weekend, the champions face Barcelona out of form and with growing question marks over the future of the manager and several players. But Zabaleta has insisted that City can upset the odds on Wednesday and reignite their campaign.
That sinking feeling: Sergio Agüero appeared disconsolate during the Burnley defeat Photo: REUTERS
“We are going to play against one of the best teams in the world and it’s not going to be easy,” Zabaleta said. “But nothing is impossible in football and you have to be ready for these moments. We need to look at ourselves and be self-critical. When things are going well, everyone enjoys it. But sometimes in football you try to do your best and you don’t get results. This is not our best.
“The only way we can improve is to work harder during the week. Things can change on games like this and it’s good that the game is just three days [after Burnley]. We need to recover well, go to Barcelona and see what we can do.”
City’s 2-0 victory against Roma in Italy in December completed a remarkable group-stage fightback which saw the club progress to the knock-out stages after failing to win any of their first four group games.
Arrivederci Roma: City players mob Zabaleta after scoring the second goal in Rome Photo: GETTY IMAGES
With Schalke defeating Real Madrid 4-3 in the Bernabéu last week – the victory was not enough to take the Germans through – Zabaleta claims that City can use that performance as inspiration against Barcelona. “If you look at the game Real Madrid played against Schalke, and the same with Chelsea and PSG, it shows anything can happen. That’s why we need to go to Barca with confidence and belief.
“We have played in this competition for four years and it’s a competition we want to make progress in.”

