Steven Caulker and Thomas Lees named as two England Under-21 players charged following brawl against Serbia
By Matt Scott
8:21PM GMT 31 Oct 2012
Comments
The pair were named by the news agency Reuters as having been accused by Serbian police along with coach Steve Wigley and eight Serbians. The Football Association were last night still awaiting official confirmation of the charges but privately have offered their full support to the English trio, whom they feel are innocent, and will provide any legal assistance they require.
The FA believe 20-year-old Caulker’s only involvement in the brawl – which followed alleged sustained racist abuse being directed at England’s Danny Rose – was to act as a peacemaker.
Similarly they view Lees, 21, as a victim rather than an aggressor. The Leeds defender, a second-half substitute, is understood to have left the field covered in bruises.
Later a different news agency, Associated Press, identified Tom Ince rather than Lees as the player named. Officials are working to clarify the information today.
Reuters’ source said the Serbians would allow the English trio to be processed by the British justice system, apparently ruling out any prospect of the trio being required to travel to face trial in Serbia.
Two England players charged
Serbian FA bans U21 players for year
These dark forces must be stopped
'England can't lecture Serbia on racism'
O'Neill: Rose needs time to recover
Serbian FA launch own investigation
Even if that threat was revived the British Home Secretary, Theresa May, would have to consider the case before granting their extradition. Once the evidence is handed to the British authorities, it will be for them to decide whether Wigley or the players have committed any offence under British rather than Serbian law.
The FA, who have reviewed hours of footage of the brawl, are likely to argue charges should not be brought.
In all the public prosecutor’s office in Belgrade has charged 11 people, including five Serbian players and staff and three fans, with violent conduct during and after the second leg.
The Serbian Interior Ministry had said on Tuesday it had pressed preliminary charges against 12 people without naming any of them. It is unclear why one charge against an unnamed Serbian player has now been dropped.
“The case against the English players and staff will be handed over to the British judiciary when such a ruling is made by the Serbian authorities,” the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told Reuters. “Serbian players Ognjen Mudrinski, Goran Causic, Aleksandar Kirovski and Djordje Despotovic as well as assistant coach Andreja Milutinovic have also been charged.”
The three Serbian fans have been accused of using fireworks during the match, which England won 1-0 to seal a 2-0 aggregate win in the two-leg play-off, and a place in next year’s Under-21 Euro finals in Israel.
A mass brawl between rival players and staff erupted after the final whistle and England left back Rose complained he was racially abused and pelted with missiles by Serbian fans before, during and after the ill-tempered contest.
The English FA lodged a formal protest and the Serbian Football Association (FSS) denied the racism charges.
Uefa’s disciplinary committee is to review the video evidence and scheduled to announce their verdict on Nov 22. Meanwhile the FSS has suspended Mudrinski and his team-mate Nikola Ninkovic from international football for a year as well as Milutinovic and fellow assistant coach Srdjan Maksimovic for two years.
Uefa President Michel Platini said last week during a Euro 2016 meeting in Paris that Serbia could face tough sanctions if found guilty of racism after hooligan problems in the past.

