<<<<<<< HEAD
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604257/s/3d1c409b/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Ccommonwealthgames0C110A0A75160CCommonwealth0EGames0E20A140Elive0Bhtml/story01.htm
=======
>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
Commonwealth Games day nine: as it happened
By Alan Tyers (until 3pm) and Dan Lucas (thereafter)
10:00PM BST 01 Aug 2014
• Full schedule • Full Usain Bolt "a bit s***" transcription • Gallery of Commonwealth Games gurners • Nicola Adams through to boxing final • Des Lynam slates "amateurish" BBC coverage • Full medals' table
If the Commonwealth Games athletes were TV characters, who would they be? Send all your thoughts to or tweet them to

21.49 Right folks, that's me done for these games; I am no longer master of this domain. Thanks for reading and for your correspondence. Enjoy the final weekend.

21.47 "I love to compete and I wanted to be here for the fans and because I wanted to be at the Commonwealth Games... I would never say something like that." - Bolt.
21.44 Jamaica start slowly with Australia getting away fast and Nigeria challenging. Nigeria lead at the final handover but Bolt, shocker here, flies home, reeling in the Nigerian runner and getting home at a canter. I reckon he slowed up at the end there, but he gave the crowd what they wanted.
Quickly though, here's one last missive from Gareth.
The middleweight final tomorrow is going to be a cracker:
Vijender Vijender, the Indian star, bronze medallist from Beijing (who lost to Anthony Ogogo in Delhi in the semis when he was deducted two points in the fight, and the Indian fans almost rioted), looked brilliant against Connor Coyle or Northern Ireland.
Vijender Vijender, who's been in one Bollywood movie, Fugly, was slick and quick and so relaxed beating the Northern Irishman.
Then up stepped Anthony Fowler, of England, in the second semi. He floored Benny Muziyo of Zambia with a big fight hand in the first round, schooled him in the second, and dominated in the third.
Top kid.
21.42 Bolt will run the fourth leg and bring the baton home for Jamaica. The noise inside Hamden Park is incredible.
21.39 Right, here we go, the men's 4x100m relay first heat... and Jamaica haven't won it! Because they're in the second one. Trinidad & Tobago win fairly comfortably from Canada and so those two teams are through. The Bahamas, whose time of 38.52 is a new national record, will have to wait and see whether or not their third place is good enough.
21.34 There was a complication with the English changeover in the women's 4x100m relay, one that had to be reviewed by the judges. They were fine, although Wales have been disqualified for a similar offence. Albeit one that was actually an offence.
21.28 Results are in from the women's 4x100m heats: Jamaica, anchored by reigning World and Olympic 100m champion Shelly-Ann Fraser Pryce, take an unsurprising first place ahead of England. In the first heat, The Bahamas win ahead of Trinidad & Tobago and Nigeria.
A bit more from Gareth A Davies, whose interview mentioned below is well worth a read.
? An extraordinary man; the double amputee powerlifter competes tomorrow.
Yule lost both legs in Afghanistan but says he has nothing to whinge about as he is competing for Scotland.
Yule: "People always ask me who inspires me and it’s never really sportsmen. I know many 18 and 19-year-old lads who are triple amputees and they get up in the morning, put all their limbs on and they go out the door. Why am I going to whinge when I’m 35, married and have children, and I’m competing for my country?”

21.15 Want to read more on England's women and their nerve-shredding shootout win in the hockey earlier? Then Rod Gilmour is your man.
Maddie Hinch, the England goalkeeper, proved a revelation. The 25-year-old memorised entries from the ‘playbook’ she keeps to document opposition players as she stifled two Black Sticks attempts to herald a remarkable 3-1 victory. This after Katie Glynn had scored with a brilliant, instinctive strike with two minutes to go in normal time to take the semi-final to a shoot-out.
It was not all about Hinch though. Georgie Twigg, Alex Danson and Susie Gilbert also played their part. Their runs from the 23-metre line all ended successfully before Stacey Michelson, sensing another surging run from goal by Hinch, slapped wide of the post.
You can read the full piece here.
21.05 The men's 4x100m heat - and by proxy Usain Bolt - are running late and will begin in about 40 minutes. Thankfully, Gareth has sent us some more juicy tidbits.
Sitting with Amir Khan earlier, we discussed England's Nicola Adams, while her bout was going on. Here's what he reckoned....
"Sometimes when you have a crowd of people supporting you, you want to impress them and you want to entertain. She's an entertainer already, but she's a great fighter. Sometimes she makes it hard on herself. She just needs to stick to her boxing skills and forget about the crowd. It's not easy, though. It took me a long time to do that and I've only started doing it now. But when you start forgetting the crowd and focusing on what you have to do, it becomes so much easier. I think she's an amazing boxer now, but she can become even better."
She's very clever, though. She gets busy at the end of rounds because she knows that will be the last thing in the judges' minds. They always remember the last few seconds."
Then Khan opened up on men not wearing headguards in the amateur code any more: "I think it's dangerous because a lot of cuts are happening. When you're fighting these southpaws, there's a lot of head clashes and stuff. It's awkward. God forbid I was in the Olympics without a head-guard and I got cut in my first fight. That would have been a nightmare. Why give something like that a chance?"
Alex Arthur was there, too: "When I won the Commonwealths I had something like five fights in eight days and I would have never made it through that without getting cut. I was always getting cut anyway. You come up against one of those tough African southpaws and you'll know all about it."
20.52 A silver medal for Scotland in the women's 800m thanks to a fantastic run from Lynsey Sharp, who comes home in 2:01.34, behind Kenya's Eunice Jepkoech Sum. Sum was the runaway winner, but second through fifth couldn't have been closer, with Uganda's Winnie Nanyondo narrowly forcing English hope Jessica Judd out of the medals.
20.47 There's no respite for some, including our own Gareth A Davies who reports from the boxing.
England Joe Joyce's Ugandan opponent Mike Sekabembe today failed a pre-fight morning medical, and I understand it was a damaged wrist.
It meant the Londoner was straight through to being guaranteed a silver or gold at superheavyweight, and will face Joseph Goodall of Australia in the last bout of the boxing tournament which moves to the 11,000 seater Hydro on Saturday, across the concourse from the Scottish Exhibition and Conference Centre.
Read my interview with Joyce later, when the Fine Art graduate reveals he is inspired as much by heroes Jean-Michel Basquiat, an exponent of Neo-Expressionism and Primitivism, who died of a heroin overdose aged 27 and photo-realist Chuck Close, as the former world heavyweight champion Lennox Lewis, who also thrilled him as a kid with his ‘Sweet Science’.
20.38 Moses Kipsiro, Uganda's defending Commonwealth Games champion, will retain the title of defending Commonwealth Games champion for the next four years after winning the tightest of races in the men's 10,000m at Hampden Park. He finishes in 27:56.11, just 0.03 seconds ahead of Kenya's Josphat Bett. Only 0.09 seconds further back in the bronze medal position was Canada's Cameron Levins.
20.23 Gold in the pole vault for England! We knew it would be as Steven Lewis was facing off against compatriot Luke Cutts for the win, but after an error strewn finale it's Lewis who wins in a jump-off.
20.17 England's Isobel Pooley looks understandably delighted with her high jump silver medal. "I went for it, I lost control and it turned out OK," she told the BBC. "The leap took a lot of confidence. I dreamt about being consistent, but my second attempt I am very proud of."

20.14 England's men's doubles table tennis team are currently in bronze medal match action; they're 2-1 down to their Singapore counterparts.
20.04 While we were diving, a bunch of gold medals were won. They were:
- Tianwei Feng (Singapore) - women's table tennis singles - Dani Samuels (Australia) - women's discus; England's Jade Lally won bronze - Jonathan Ndiku (Kenya) - Men's 3,000m steeplechase
19.55 An OK dive from Canada, but OK isn't good enough and England get silver! Australia's Domonic Bedggood and Matthew Mitcham take the gold. Just 0.18 separated them from England at the top - 399.54 against 399.36. Given that Daley and Denny were languishing in last place after the fifth dive I doubt they'll be too heartbroken.
19.52 The Australians follow this with a big dive of their own and it's 88.56 for them, which nudges them just a fraction ahead. It means England can't win gold and there are two pairs to come. A mediocre dive from Malaysia gives them 70.08 and drops them down to third, so Canada are all that stand between England and silver...
19.51 95.46 for England on the final dive, which is huge and gives them a shout of a medal.
19.49 This has, quite frankly, been rubbish diving, with no one wanting to win it. After five of six rounds:
1. Malaysia 317.31 2. Australia 310.98 3. Canada 309.42 4. England 303.90
19.44 We have an email and it comes courtesy of our Scottish correspondent Simon McMahon.
Evening Dan. Is Claudia Fragapane doing a new move in that picture - the van Persie? She looks remarkably similar to RVP as he scored his diving header for Holland against Spain in Brasil 2014.
"Brasil"? Who are you trying to impress?
19.40 After four rounds of diving, Daley and Denny are 239.64, adrift in third place with the Australian pair ahead by a fair old distance on 250.50. Amazingly, the organisers decided it was a good idea to play Men At Work's 'Down Under' to serenade the Australians as they surface. Canada have 236.16 after a poor dive but Malaysia's 256.92 puts them out in front.
19.29 Eh, maybe not that great as that score leaves them down in third place after round one, which is outside the medals. Reverse 1.5 somersaults and half a twist this time. 48.60 moves them up to 102, which isn't great news. Australia scored 54 in their first round.
19.24 It's worth noting that the withdrawal of one team means that there are only four teams competing in the diving in, er, Edinburgh. This means that only a gold and silver medal will be awarded. Right, 1.5 somersaults with pike for Denny and Daley and it's an excellent score of 53.40 to begin with.
19.23 And out of shape.
19.21 Silver for England! In the women's high jump: congratulations are due to 21-year-old Isobel Pooley. God these games are making me feel old.
19.18 Right, women's 1m springboard results: Canada's Jennifer Abel takes the gold, with Australia's Maddison Keeney and Esther Qin getting silver and bronze. Here's a song for the Canadian champion.

19.15 *Tom Daley and James Denny will be up next. This tells you everything about the main selling point of the diving events.
19.14 Grace Reid has slipped right down the medals table in the women's 1m springboard final and currently sits in 5th place. Still, Scotland have always got the bowls today. Tom Daley's up next.
19.09 Actually perhaps it's not been too bad a day for Scotland, as they've just won gold in the men's singles lawn bowls. Darren Burnett beating Canada's Ryan Bester 11-8.
19.04 We've just had the women's 4x400m relay first round heats. England, anchored by Christine Ohuruogu, have won the second heat after Jamaica took the first. Australia, Trinidad & Tobago, Nigeria and Canada are the other qualifiers, which means it's more bad news for Scotland. Incidentally it is absolutely belting it down with rain up there.
18.53 Here's how Reuters have broken the news:
Teenage Nigerian weightlifter Chika Amalaha has been stripped of her Commonwealth Games gold medal a week after failing a drugs test in Glasgow.
It was confirmed on Friday morning that the B sample analysis, requested by 16-year-old Amalaha, had returned another positive result and that made it inevitable she would lose her title.
At an afternoon hearing of the Commonwealth Games Federation court, it was confirmed Amalaha would be disqualified, a CGF spokeswoman confirmed.
The spokeswoman, promising a full statement from the CGF later, said: "It is correct that she has been stripped of the gold medal."
Amalaha went through doping control after her victory in the 52kg class at the Clyde Auditorium on July 25, and the results showed traces of diuretics and maskings agents.
CGF chief executive Mike Hooper said earlier on Friday: "I can report that the analysis on the Nigerian weightlifting Chika Amalaha's B sample has been completed, and this has confirmed the analysis and finding of the A result."
The CGF disciplinary hearing was chaired by the federation's president, Malaysian Prince Imran.
Their decision brings a sorry saga to its natural conclusion, with Amalaha having provided an early feel-good story before the full context of her achievement was revealed.
She had set Games records in her weight category in both the snatch and overall elements, and said afterwards: "I'm absolutely delighted. I wasn't coming here to go for gold, I just wanted to break my own record. I'm so happy that I'm going home with gold in my first Commonwealth Games."
Amalaha spoke of the "pain and dedication that got me here", yet Tuesday saw the announcement of her failed drugs test.
World Anti-Doping Agency president Sir Craig Reedie expressed his shock on Tuesday that someone so young should have failed a doping test, saying: "I am very disappointed that somebody as young as that appears to have committed an offence at a multi-sport event like the Commonwealth Games."
Drug use in weightlifting has begged questions over the sport's continued participation in the Commonwealth programme.
Nigerian weightlifting also has a history of drugs offences. The Nigerian Weightlifting Federation was suspended for repeated doping violations by the International Weightlifting Federation in 2001 and banned from competing in the following year's Manchester Commonwealth Games.
18.47 A few days ago, our very own Alasdair Reid reported that 16-year-old Chika Amalaha, Nigeria's first every Commonwealth Games gold medalist, had failed a drug test.
Chika Amalaha, 16, became the youngest woman to win a weightlifting title in Games history when she took gold in the 53kg category last Friday. However, the sample she provided afterwards showed traces of amiloride and hydrochlorothiazide, which are prohibited as diuretics and masking agents under class five of the World Anti-Doping Agency’s list.
A statement from the Commonwealth Games Federation confirmed that Amalaha had been “issued with a notice of disclosure” and that she had been provisionally suspended from the Games. It also said that she would pursue her right to have her B sample tested independently, which will happen at a London laboratory on Wednesday.
I'm now hearing reports that Amalaha has been stripped of her gold medal.
18.40 Just a quick note to let you know that Tom Daley, of Splash! fame, will be on in around 40 minutes in the men's synchronised 10m platform final. It feels weird seeing him in the men's final, given that to my mind Tom Daley is still about nine years old. As he always has been and always will be. Like that kid out of Harry Potter.
18.27 A couple more British qualifiers from the second heat of the men's 1500m first round: Chris Gowell (Wales) and Charlie Grice (England) join Kenya's Ronald Kwemoi and the South African Johan Cronje in the final.
18.19 Here's England's record-breaking gold medallist gymnast Claudia Fragapane in impressive action.

18.15 Chris O'Hare of Scotland squeezes into the top four of the 1500m to qualify for Saturday's final. the Kiwi pair of Nick Willis and Zane Robertson are the top two with Magut third.
18.09 The good news is that the athletics have started for the day! We begin with the men's 1500m first round, with Kenya's James Magut the favourite in the absence of Asbel Kiprop and defending champion Silas Kiplagat.
18.00 The gymnastics are done for these games.
17.55 Horizontal bars and we have another gold for England! Nile Wilson holds on to first place by a whisker from his team-mate Kristian Thomas. Kevin Lytwyn, of Canada, pips Scotland's Franks Baines to bronze. Booooo!
17.42 We have a new question at the top of the page, folks, because I can do that. Do get involved.
17.38 England's Nile Wilson has taken the lead in the men's horizontal bars gymnastics. Scotland's Dan Keatings though, lost his grip and fell flat on his face.
17.33 Hello again. I got pasta instead, opting for the healthy option. While we were away... nothing much happened. The big event tonight is, in fact, not even a medal event. Instead it's the first heat of the men's 4x100m relay, in which some guy called Usain will totally be giving it his all.
17.15 Right, nothing is happening, I'm off to grab a delicious burger for dinner.
17.11 Perhaps (OK definitely) more impressive is this record for Claudia Fragapane. She's 16 years old, only an inch taller than Peter Dinklage, and now a giant of English Commonwealth Games history.
<noframe>Twitter: BBC Sport - .<a href="http://www.twitter.com/claudia_frag" target="_blank">@claudia_frag</a>'s four <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23Glasgow2014" target="_blank">#Glasgow2014</a> golds is the most won at a single Games by an English woman for 84 years <a href="http://t.co/m0Dmp41wIy" target="_blank">http://t.co/m0Dmp41wIy</a></noframe>
17.08 As the BBC are now showing highlights of the thrilling hockey semi-final from earlier, it's worth marvelling at just how impressive Alex Danson's finish for England was after she was fouled by the New Zealand goalkeeper during the penalty shootout.

17.03 And indeed she remains there! It's a fourth gold medal for the 4'6" 16-year-old gymnast fom Bristol (yes, I've been on Wikipedia) as she decimates the field in the women's floor gymnastics. Well done her.
16.56 An excellent score of 15.541 puts Fragapane into the gold medal position for the time being.
16.51 Liam Pitchford has won his men's singles table tennis quarter final and will face Singapore's Gao Ning in the final.
16.47 We're in the early stages of the women's floor event. Claudia Fragapane, of England, narrowly missed a medal in the balance beam event but is among the favourites for the gold here. It'd be her fourth of the games if she were to pick it up.
16.35 Here's Dan Purvis on his way to a rather impressive gold on the parallel bars.

16.27 Please do send me your inevitable jokes about that hockey semi-final. Here's one to kick you off:
<noframe>Twitter: Gary Lineker - Good heavens! England have won a penalty shoot-out... In women's hockey.</noframe>
England will lose to play Australia in the final tomorrow. Don't get your hopes up, England fans.
16.25 There has also been British success in the men's parallel bars. Daniel Purvis posts a score of 15.533 to win gold for Scotland, while England took silver and bronze through Nile Wilson and Max Whitlock respectively.
16.23 Amid that excitement, Gareth A Davies reported the following from the boxing:
England's Qais Ashfaq, through to Bantamweight final, and is a lovely mover, as evidenced by his victory over Kenya's Benson Nganjiru.
On beating his opponent to reach the final: “He is a very experienced boxer. He is 29 years old and I am only 21. He has been to the Olympics, been to the World Championships and he got to the Commonwealth Games final last time [in Delhi 2010].
“So I knew it would be tough but I am ready for anyone who comes my way.”
On the final: “I will stick to the tactics that the corner give me and if I stick to the tactics I will beat him." “I genuinely believe that anyone in my weight, as long as I perform, I can beat and that is what I am showing everyone now.”
[I] tend to agree. Great potential. Though he has hung his chin out there once or twice.
16.08 Right, here goes.
- Twigg to go first, goes left and scores. Eng 1-0 NZ - Whitelock with a carbon copy, only lofting the ball over the goalie. Eng 1-1 NZ - Danson goes round Rutherford, who trips her, but Danson reaches and flicks it in Eng 2-1 NZ - Punt loses control dummying and Hinch flicks it out of play! Eng 2-1 NZ - Gilbert scores at the second attempt. Eng 3-1 NZ - Katie Glynn goes straight and Hinch takes first ball then player, so a save Eng 3-1 NZ - Bray shoots wide. Had that gone in England were through Eng 3-1 NZ - It's a miss for Stacey Michelsen and England go through!
16.02 It's cleared off the line and that's it. Penalties, it will be. Good luck with that one, England.
16.00 Penalty corner to New Zealand, but England break... and get their own penalty corner. Eight seconds on the clock.
15.57 Heartbreak for England as Glynn diverts a shot into the net to level things up for New Zealand! And it's nearly so much worse moments later as a desperate goalmouth scramble sees the ball hit the post! 1-1 in this one with a minute to go.
15.54 Chance for England to make it 2-0 as they find themselves two-on-two, but New Zealand's defence scrambles well.
15.52 Without a doubt, the real action is in the women's hockey right now. There are six minutes or so to go and England are coming under increasing pressure from the Kiwis. 1-0 it reamins.
15.44 England's Rajiv Ouseph is into the badminton semi-finals after a straightforward 21-14 21-7 win over Merrilees.
15.32 The BBC have switched to showing the boxing, but Gareth A Davies is ahead of the game, as evidenced by this missive:
Couple of updates from the boxing hall. Scotland's Josh Taylor through to light welterweight final after a hard fought - some might say controversial - victory over Sam Maxwell of England.
Maxwell ploughed forward Taylor looked to move and counter . It wasn't a pretty bout.
Then - see below - Olympic bronze medallist Michael Conlan through to bantamweight final after Sean McGoldrick bout was stopped in the second due to a cut on Conlans head. 'Just glue no stitches' he said,'it happens'. Conlan was ahead 20-18 on all three cards at the time.

15.26 Er, well this is embarrassing. Rajiv Ouseph actually leads Scotland's Kieran Merrilees in the badminton. I might have looked at the score the wrong way around. Sorry, folks. Sorry, Scotland. Good news for Canada though, who have definitely won gold in the women's balance beam through Elsabeth Black. Georgina Hockenhull wins bronze for Wales.
15.21 So England look to be pulling away from Australia in the medals table, but there's a hell of a lot still on offer. So who do you fancy to come out on top? The Manic Street Preachers or The National?


15.12 Jeremy Clarkson, Nick Clegg, Ian Bell, Jordan Henderson, Kay Burley, Martin Freeman, John Squire: your boys took one hell of a beating! It's gold for Scotland in the men's fours bowls as they stuff England 16-8 in the final. There's more good news for those north of Carlisle too, as Kieran Merrilees leads London's Rajiv Ouseph in the men's singles badminton quarter-final.
England lead New Zealand 1-0 at half-time in the women's hockey semi-final though, so it's not all bad for them.
14.59 Greetings all. I am Dan Lucas and I have relieved Alan as your oracle of all things Commonwealth Games. Email me, tweet me, or boost my ego by becoming one of my Twitter follower folk. Let's have a look at what we're going to be enjoying tonight.
- Gymnastics! Beam, bars - both parallel and horizontal - and floor, featuring both men and women winning medals. - Bowls! Scotland are about to go all Bannockburn and beat the English to a gold medal in the men's fours (sources suggest no medals were actually awarded at Bannockburn), then later on the men's singles final between Scotland and Canada. - A shedload of athletics, including the men's 10,000m final not featuring Mo Farah! - Approximately 4,000 boxing semi-finals, the losers of which will pick up a bronze medal apiece - Women's singles and men's doubles table tennis finals
14.58 As the beam gets underway, I am going to hand you over to Dan Lucas. Cheers.
14.53 Back to the gym, where is is balance beam time for the girls.

14.51 Barring disasters, the Scots are about to defeat the English in men's fours lawn bowling. Alex Salmond, this is your moment. The Scots are 16-7 ahead and it's surely all over bar the slightly uncomfortable nationalist overtones.
14.45 Also at the boxing, there was drama in Conlan's fight when he clashed heads with Sean McGoldrick of Wales. A bad cut for the Northern Irishman and he will need to watch that in the final. There's no headgear in the men's boxing at these Games.
14.42 Here's Gareth at the boxing
England super heavyweight Joe Joyce has a walkover into tomorrow’s final in the Commonwealth Games. Londoner Joyce's Ugandan opponent Mike Sekabembe failed a pre-fight medical.
“It’s case of mixed feelings about the walkover. I wanted to box but it’s great that I have got the silver medal and a place in the final so I cannot complain,' Joyce said.
“Today I am just going to take it easy. I will get the chance the see the other semi so it will be good to watch that and take a look at who I will be boxing tomorrow.
“I am in great shape and am feeling very good at the moment. I always work hard in training and leave no stone unturned so I will be going into the fight in very good condition. If you work hard in training you get the benefit when you box. Train hard, fight easy.”
His opponent will be known at 3.45pm.
14.39 So as it turns out in the men's vault, it was the first three who take the medals. But sadly for Kristian Thomas, part of the team that won bronze in London and indeed the team that won gold here, he will have to settle for silver behind Scott Morgan.
14.37 Rod Gilmour is on hockey watch, where England are underway against the Kiwis in the women's semi.
An international cap love-in at the hockey. Susannah Townsend (seen as a Future England Ccaptain) and Sam Quek receive flowers for their 50th England caps. Now for England to bloom on the field, put their dismal World Cup behind them and reach tomorrow's final. Against New Zealand, who have one of the best midfield lines in world hockey, it's going to be a tall order.
14.35 Sorry, I was distracted by the vaulting, should have given you more of Des Lynam.
“I want a band, I want a live audience where I walk on to applause, great lighting, oh and a sidekick to read out the tweets like I have on my show on BT.”
I know that Clare Balding, nice person that she is, would not have made any demands like that but someone at the BBC thought the format of Tonight at the Games was a good idea. There was a touch of Alan Partridge about it all.
You can dress the Commonwealth Games up all you like but if your guests of the evening happen to be a couple of discus throwers, a group of bowlers, shooters or badminton players, none of whom you were familiar with yesterday and who you are likely to forget instantly, it’s hardly compulsive viewing.
There were plenty of clips of the day’s action that, if interested, you would have seen live or already replayed. Of course the people in the audience were worked up in to a frenzy. I have never seen a studio audience for any programme not delighted to be there but that doesn’t mean the viewing audience is necessarily intrigued.
14.30 The highly impressive bantamweight Michael Conlan has beaten his Welsh opponent Sean McGoldrick and will contest the final
14.26 Scott Morgan of Canada, though, has vaulted over Kristian, if you'll pardon the pun, with two fantastically powerful, driving leaps and he is a worhty leader as it stands. Solid efforts from Frank Baines and Adam Cox, but they're not going to be troubling the podium.
14.19 An emai from Simon McMahon
Afternoon Alan. No doubting the skill of the bowlers, but I don't think even Alex 'Tattie' Marshall would describe himself as an athlete. I'm reminded of the late, great Sid Waddell's priceless description of another Scottish sporting great as he stood on the oche, fag in hand and pint on the table. 'Jocky Wilson, what an athlete!' There's not a sporting festival in the world that wouldn't be improved by the inclusion of darts. Imagine Phil 'The Power' Taylor v. Gary 'The Flying Scotsman' Anderson in the Olympic Darts Final in Rio ...
14.16 Des Lynam has had a pop at the BBC coverage.
14.09 Kristian goes for his second vault, high difficulty again and he's into the lead with 14.499, a very high execution score for that last vault.
14.06 England's Kristian Thomas has attempted a very hard vault and has overdone it on his pike and he tumbles over.
14.05 Gareth: But it's a split decision to the Aussie. 'So what...' McFadden shrugs. He loved the crowd. They loved him. The Turkey judge scored it 30-27 to McFadden. Other two 29-28 to Moloney. Little harsh.
14.03 Gareth A Davies is at the boxing:
Wee Reece McFadden, the livewire men's flyweight delighting the crowd here in a great scrap with Aussie Andrew Moloney. Round three just ending. I reckon he's got this... super little chap, all 52kg of him...

13.58 Time now for a bit of gymastics. It's individual apparatus finals today. The men's vault final is the first order of business. Wah Toon Hoe of Singapore will lead us off. He's gone for two vaults of 5.20 difficulty. Two decent efforts. 14.195 is his total averaged score and that has put down a marker.
13.50 Good badminton match going on in the women's singles, Michelle Chan of New Zealand is playing local girl Kirsty Gilmour. The Bellshill badmintonist is one game to love up and leading in the second, to boot.
13.32 "A good day and on Yorkshire Day as well!" says Adams. "I am really excited to fight in the final. Rumble in the jungle starts tomorrow. I will be there and you should be to." Not sure it's quite Ali-Foreman, but there you go. Good luck to her.

13.31 Unanimous decision, rightly so, and Nicola Adams is through to the final comfortably. Gareth A Davies writes: "Adams wins that one by unanimous decision but was drawn into a bit of a scrap with Bujold."
13.30 I would be amazed if Adams isn't through with a bit to spare.
13.28 Adams, who fights brilliantly off the back foot, is in a great position now, because Bujold will have to come at her. With 30 seconds left, this should be a formality now for Adams, she just needs to stay at distance. The contest ends with a stinging left from Adams.
13.27 But as the round ends, Adams pins the Canadian with a big right hand, and then a right cross. That's good enough to win the third round.
13.26 Adams caught with a really good hook. She's also getting sucked into tangles. Nicola needs to step off keep this at range, not get suckered into what is becoming a scrappy encounter.
13.24 Close round again but Nicola just about shades it, albiet that she is warned for hitting her Canadian opponent on the break.
13.23 Gareth A Davies writes:
I am sat with Amir Khan. Amir is telling me Adams looks so technical he's very impressed. Adams shades the first round against Mandy Bujold.

13.21 Mandy has almost hit the ref, but in between that, got her jab working okay. But Nicola fought more aggressively, and landed more and better shots. The judges all give that one to Nicola.
13.17 And here's Nicola Adams to fight for the right to take Walsh on. Nicola is in the blue corner; here she is pictured before the fight.

13.10 Michaela Walsh of Northern Ireland is in the first semi of the women's flyweight boxing, fighting. It's a split decision but she has taken it over Pinki Rani of India. She'll fight the winner of Nicola Adams and Mandy Bujold. "It was close fight, I think she won the first round. I read this morning that she has beaten Mary Kom, so she is a good fighter. It took me a while to get going."
12.55 And there's a cagey start in the bowls; it's 1-1.
12.45 Meanwhile, we're about to get underway in a big grudge match: it's Scotland v Englad in lawn bowling. Men's fours. I full expect Kelvingrove to be a cauldron of nationalist fervour.
12.30 England's hockeyistas go against the Kiwis later, and there is some good quality in the other semi as South Africa and Australia duke it out. 0-0 in that and it's a tense affair.
12.15 Coming up we've got bowls, where England take on Scotland, as well as some hockey, some boxing featuring Nicola Adams, and then individual finals in the gymnastics.

12.05 Jack Laugher and Chris Mears finish with a very techincally difficult dive, not brilliantly executed, but plenty good enough to hold their huge lead. Commonwealth gold for England! And there is bronze for Robinson-Baker and Woodward
12.04 Robinson-Baker and Woodward go for a hard one with their final dive, it's nothing to write home about but they should hopefully hold onto bronze.
12.02 The Aussie pair produce an excellent final dive and keep the pressure on.
12.01 "Canadian diver Maxim turns into Bananaman as he hits the water," says the BBC commentator. That would surely score high on difficulty?
12.00 And England's second pair of Nick Robinson-Baker and Freddie Woodward are sitting in third.
11.58 Here come Jack and Chris for their fifth dive, a reverse two and a half somersault.

And they've nailed it! They're going to go into the final dive with a huge lead.
11.53 After four dives Jack Laugher and Chris Mears have opened up a huge margin over their Aussie rivals in second.
11.28 Here are the diving contenders, then.

11.25 More from boxing boss man Gareth A Davies:
England super heavyweight Joe Joyce’s Ugandan opponent Mike Sekabembe did not pass a medical today so the big man from London has been given a walkover in thr semis, and progresses to tomorrow’s final. He will meet the winner of Efe Ajagba of Nigeria or Joseph Goodhalll of Australia.

11.20 We'll turn our attention now to the diving.
11.10 Aw, heartbreak for Jersey, they've been edged out 15-14 in the bronze match by Northern Ireland, and the Channel Island's wait for a medal goes on.
11.01 England go for a short jack on the next end. A blunder by South Africa as they fail to put in a guard. But England fail to put the jack in the ditch. A power shot, and it just whistles past the jack. South Africa have done it! They take the gold and win by 20-17. England's Natalie Melmore and Jamie-Lea Winch take silver behind South Africa's Tracy-Lee Botha and Colleen Piketh.
10.58 It's 16-17 in favour of the English after end 17. Bowls drama! And as I type, the Bok (bowling blue) have levelled it. Close! England played last and, with a power shot, just nudged the jack enough to deny SA more than one score in that. So at 17.17 we go to an extra end.

10.46 England are edging ahead in this lawn bowls ding-dong, they lead 17-14 after end 16.
10.45 News: Teenage Nigerian weightlifter Chika Amalaha, who won a gold medal before failing a drugs test, has tested positive in a B test and will face a hearing in front of the Commonwealth Games Federation today, Games officials have announced.
10.40 It's not long until Nicola Adams fights, and she's not just a formidable force in the ring: it seems that she is also an inspiration to her team-mates. Here is our boxing correspondent Gareth A Davies with the thoughts of middleweight Savannah Marshall.
A close bond with Olympic flyweight champion Nicola Adams has helped England team-mate Savannah Marshall overcome a disastrous London 2012 as the world No 1 middleweight prepares her fighting claim for Commonwealth Games gold in the next 24 hours.
The 23-year-old from Hartlepool was the world No 1 and a favourite for an Olympic gold medal in London but she suffered a nightmare quarter-final defeat to Maria Volnova of Kazakhstan. Marshall was near inconsolable.
But the friendly counsel of Adams has been there, rock-like, for two years. “It's great. I'm very close to Nicky Adams. When I come away with Nicky, it's like coming away with a friend. She's one of my best friends. We like to joke a lot. We call each other our second limb,” explained Marshall, who walked into a gym in Hartlepool aged eleven and as the only girl at her club, fell in love with the sport.
“I'd be lost if she wasn't here. We've been saying all week that we can't wait until it's over because then we can go on holiday together.”
Since London, Marshall has continued to dominate. She arrived at these Games as World No 1, and this time, cannot afford to falter. “I try not to think about the Olympics any more. I've boxed in a world championship final twice, so I now know what to expect. When you're abroad they're shouting for the other opponent, but here they're all for Great Britain.”
Marshall missed the European championships in June. “I've had no problems with my shoulder, which is great. I'm glad I missed the Europeans because there's a chance I would have got injured there and not be here now.”
She faces the tough Nigerian Edith Ogoke, who claims to model her style on her hero Joe Frazier, in the semi-final today [FRIDAY] and is one of 23 home nation boxers who will compete in 26 semi-final bouts at the SECC here in Glasgow.
At 51kg, flyweight Adams, who looks more adept and balanced with each bout, faces Mandy Bujold of Canada in her semi-final, while Northern Ireland fighter Michaela Walsh faces India's Pinki Jangra.
Adams and Marshall are joined by five other England boxers in the last four, with bantamweight Qais Ashfaq, welterweight Scott Fitzgerald, light-welterweight Samuel Maxwell, super-heavyweight Joe Joyce, and middleweight favourite Antony Fowler, cousin of former Liverpool and England footballer Robbie Fowler.
Fowler won bronze at the World Amateur Championships in Kazakhstan last October. “I honestly believe I could have won gold there. But I'll have another chance next year in the world championships," he said.
"For now, it's Commonwealths all the way and I'm focusing on the next fight now. This is the best I've ever felt, no doubt. I don't know whether that's because I'm boxing weak opposition or I'm just on top of the world, but I know I've trained hard and I'm going to do myself proud.”
Northern Ireland, who led the final medal table four years ago in Delhi at the Commonwealth Games, have nine boxers in the semi-finals, led by the outstanding Olympic bronze medallists Paddy Barnes and Michael Conlan, at light flyweight and bantamweight respectively.
For Scotland, light-welterweight Josh Taylor, who missed out on a medal at lightweight in London two years ago, is in the form of his life, and faces England’s Maxwell.
10.30 There's diving in just over an hour. England have two pairs in the final of the men's synchronised 3m springboard.
10.00 Could not be closer in that bowls match, it's 11-11 between the South African women's pair and the English as they do battle for gold. In the bronze match, Jersey are in with a chance of a rare medal; they're leading Northern Ireland 10-9.
09.49 Not to be for Tin-Tin today, they've been rolled by the Aussies here and it's all over. Still, she's still in the mixed doubles semi final, partnering Liam Pitchford. They play Singapore at 1.40pm.
Talking of table tennis, did you see this rally from the other day?

09.45 The Aussies took that game as well. Let's hope that England's pair of Tin-Tin Ho and Karina Le Fevre can turn it around in game three of this third round clash. Ms Ho is only 15, and is from Paddington. Her dad Charles is table-tennis bonkers. Some brilliant quotes from him on the BBC.
"Tin-Tin? I took the initials TT, for table tennis," he said.
"It's quite embarrassing," said Tin-Tin. "He's really obsessed with table tennis so it's like, TT, table tennis, Tin-Tin. That's why my brother's called Ping as well."
And Ping said: "Ping's actually quite a common name but when you say you're Ping and you play ping-pong, then it gets interesting. It's a bit gimmicky but as you grow older it's fine; it wears off.
09.40 Table tennis going on now, and England's women are taking on the Aussies in pairs. It pains be greatly to report that the girls from the Land Down Under are one game to love ahead.
09.20 But the English pair of Jamie-Lea Winch and Natalie Melmore have hit back in end five with four shots, so it's now 7-5 to the Saffers. In end six, the South African pair are in the box seat but Natalie has just produced a snorter with her last bowl to hit the jack, unsighted, and she just nudges it nearer to her own bowls. South Africa cannot lay up on it with the final bowl of the end and England take a single.
09.15 Well, news from the front. Or the lawn. And it's not too good. The South African women's pair have raced into a 7-1 after end four.
09.00 And here's our para sport guru Gareth A Davies on David Weir's latest triumph:
David Weir destroyed the field here last night with the kind of power he displayed at the Paralympics after two years away from major international events, sprinting clear 300m from home in the T54 1500m to claim the only gold medal which had alluded him in the event at a major championships.
The ‘Weirwolf’ then insisted he will only get quicker and that it was the perfect fillip for two years intensive training ahead of Rio in 2016.
Weir won the race in the treacherous conditions in 3:21.67 ahead of reigning Commonwealth Games champion Kurt Fearnley, who finished in 3:23.08 with Alex Dupont of Canada in third.
The tattooed British star, now 35, is in the prime of his racing years with those powerful, piston arms, and is almost unbeatable. Tactical nous, combined with his power and sprinting prowess could see him dominate for years.
Weir really is that good, making a difficult race look simplicity itself.
08.55 Another unusual story is that of the Sierra Leone mountain biker Mohamed Tholley.
Sierra Leone's mountain biking champion has disappeared from the Commonwealth Games, days after his sick teammate was tested for the Ebola virus, his team has revealed.
Mohamed Tholley was due to compete in the time trial event in Glasgow today (Thurs) and the road race on Saturday, but never turned up at the start line.
08.50 The Usain comments really were quite something, but, as a hack, I find the reaction equally interesting. Naturally, the Jamaican delegation have reached for the traditional "he never said them things", effectively calling reporter Times Katie Gibbons a liar. With trust of the media at such a low ebb, some will take the Jamaicans' word over that of the journo. Some won't be happy until the media and press is totally hobbled, allowing the rich and powerful to do and say whatever they damn please. So that'll be nice.
08.35 And then the evening's big draw sees Usain Bolt and pals in action in the 4x100m relay.
08.33 Then in the evening we will turn our attention to the diving pool, where Tom Daley competes in 10m synchro platform with James Denny.
08.30 The first gold medal up for grabs is the women's pairs lawn bowling, where England take on South Africa. That starts at lovely Kelvingrove imminently.
08.25 England's hockey women are also in semi-final action, but face the formidable Kiwis. The Black Sticks scord 25 goals in their Pool A matches and let in just one. That match is at 2.30pm.
08.20 Hello sports fans! Welcome to our live blog of the Commonwealth Games. Let's begin by picking out some of the day's tastier morsels. Nicola Adams, one of the stars of London 2012, fights at 1.15pm in the semi-final of the women's flyweight. She will do battle with Canada's Mandy Bujold, who shouls be a tougher prospect than her previous opponents. However, Nicola says:
Everybody is a challenge for me at this weight. Everybody wants to be the new Nicola Adams, everybody wants to beat me and take the No1 spot. But I have got to stick to cutting my grass and not worry about how green everybody else’s is.
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
