London Olympics 2012: If there were medals for losing... Great Britain would be winning
By Cal Flyn, Data Reporter
7:24PM BST 09 Aug 2012
Comments
A cheeky bit of research by the Wall Street Journal has found that while Great Britain's cyclists, equestrians and rowers have been raking in the gold medals, some of our other sportsmen have been losing in spectacular fashion.
The US publication reviewed the results in each of the Olympics events thus far to see which country has finished in the bottom three places most often.
It awarded a lead medal to each team (or individual) who finished in last place, a tin medal to those who finished second-to-last, and a zinc medal to those in third-to-last position.
Great Britain tops the table, with a grand total of 31 non-precious medals.
Some of the lead-medal winners includes the men's water polo team – a team that has not qualified for a major international competition for 50 years – which suffered its fifth and final 13-4 defeat on Monday at the hands of Montenegro.
Give water polo more attention
GB men drawn in 'Group of Death'
Team GB handball squad revealed
The women's team has fared little better, losing 11-7 this afternoon to Italy, to finish in eighth place out of eight.
As Olympic host country, Great Britain is afforded to opportunity to field teams in a number of sports in which we would not normally have qualified.
Some of the lesser known sports, like water polo and handball, have had to hastily form teams from new players and European semi-professionals who have family links to the UK.
The British Handball Association announced the first ever national handball team on 3 July after a nation-wide appeal for potential players, noting that the hopefuls had devoted the last six years of their lives to the effort of reaching international standard in time for the London Olympics.
Unfortunately, they too won lead medals, crashing out of the competition after suffering thrashings at the hands of reigning Olympics champions France, plus handball-mad countries Sweden and Argentina.
Ukraine and Australia follow closely behind Great Britain in the 'table of shame', with 23 and 20 non-precious medals respectively.

