Maurice 'Mad Dog' Vachon - obituary
6:16PM GMT 01 Jan 2014
Comments
Maurice 'Mad Dog' Vachon, the former Canadian Olympic wrestler, who has died aged 84, achieved respect and notoriety in equal measure as one of the greatest “heels” in the business.
As Canada’s amateur representative in Greco-Roman wrestling at the 1948 London Olympics, Vachon placed only seventh. Undeterred, he went on to win a gold medal at the British Empire Games in New Zealand two years later, beginning his professional career with bouts in Montreal and northern Ontario. Eschewing his former clean-cut image in favour of a shaven head and black goatee beard, he soon acquired a villainous reputation worthy of the appearance; when it came to combat, as the Pacific Northwest wrestler and promoter Dutch Savage explained, “you’d have to hit him with a hammer or shoot him, or he’d kill you”.
The wrestling community buzzed with stories of Vachon’s exploits, invariably bar brawls involving copious quantities of alcohol and broken glass. His ring name arose following a particularly heated bout in Portland, Oregon, in 1962: frustrated at being made to wait for an opponent, Vachon seized the unfortunate latecomer as soon as he made his entrance and threw him out of the ring.
A referee and a police officer who attempted to intervene found themselves attacked in turn. Backstage, the promoter Don Owen confronted him: “You looked just like a mad dog”. While Vachon later claimed that the incident was unscripted , it transformed him in the eyes of wrestling devotees. By 1967 he had won the AMA world championship on five occasions .
In justification of his moniker, Vachon barked at, bit, and scratched opponents. To make this last tactic still more effective, he would file his fingernails into sharpened points . In televised interviews, his gravelly voice was ideally suited to the then unusual practice of “trash-talking” his opponents, and fans responded by assembling to jeer and exhort him in their thousands. His 1973 bout against Wladek “Killer” Kowalski at Montreal’s Jarry Park drew 29,127 spectators – the largest number ever recorded for the venue.
Mick McManus
Rocky Aoki
Jackie Pallo
Davey 'Boy' Smith
By the time of the last of his 13,000 bouts, in 1986, he was a highly popular figure, and the end of his professional career brought a flood of further opportunities to his door. He was hired for beer and chocolate bar commercials, wrote a biography and produced a rap album in French. To Vachon, who in retirement possessed an affability entirely absent from his alter ego, it was all rather mysterious. “I worked my entire career to be hated and still the fans love me,” he joked. “I must have done something wrong.”
One of 13 children, Maurice Vachon was born in Ville-Emard, a suburb of Montreal, on September 14 1929. His father, a local police officer, encouraged boxing and wrestling from a young age, and Maurice dropped out of school aged 13 to work at various odd jobs and pursue his amateur career at the Montreal YMCA. One brother, Paul, would enjoy considerable success in the ring as “the Butcher”, while his sister Diane, who died in 1991, fought under the name of Vivian Vachon.
In 1987, the year after his professional wrestling career came to an end, Vachon was struck by a car while visiting his sister-in-law in Iowa, an accident that resulted in the amputation of his right leg below the knee. He performed one final televised stunt in 1996, when Diesel (Kevin Nash) removed Vachon’s prosthesis mid-bout and used it to attack a rival.
Increasingly, however, Vachon became disillusioned with the spectacle . “It’s becoming evil,” he complained. Moving to Omaha with his family, he ran a local gym and gave talks to various amputee groups.
Maurice Vachon was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame in 2010. He is survived by his third wife, Kathie, and by six children.
Maurice “Mad Dog” Vachon, born September 14 1929, died November 21 2013

