Tessa Jowell: London doesn’t need another celebrity for mayor
By Rosa Prince, Online Political Editor
11:15AM GMT 21 Mar 2015
Comments
Dame Tessa Jowell, the minister who brought the Olympics to London, has said the capital does not need another “celebrity” as mayor, as she bids to succeed Boris Johnson in the job.

Tessa Jowell wants to bring Olympic-like discipline as Mayor of London
The 67-year-old, who is hoping to become Labour’s candidate in the contest which takes place next year, insisted she could be a “mayor for the moment,” and deliver what London needed in terms of more affordable housing and better child care.
Speaking in an interview with The Telegraph to mark her departure from the Commons after 23 years, she brushed off suggestions from some Labour rivals that it was time to have an ethnic minority candidate.
Currently the front-runner for the job according to the opinion polls, she also rejected the notion that she lacked the high profile and big character of the capital’s first two mayors, Ken Livingstone, who was elected as a left-wing Independent, and the Conservative Mr Johnson, who, among his other stunts, famously got stuck on a zip line during the 2012 Olympic Games.
She said: “Have I got a huge personality? I think I can be a hugely effective mayor. It’s not a celebrity gameshow, being Mayor of London.
“Why am I doing this? Because I can. And you need to bring Olympic-like discipline to changing this city.
“There are about 800,000 Londoners who live London’s housing crisis every day, being denied proper family life, being denied proper places for their children to play.
“So too bloody right I’m in this to build homes and too bloody right I’m in this to see a generation of children grow up. Frankly I’m more concerned about that than whether or not I can get on a high wire and walk across the Thames.

Boris Johnson gets stuck on a zip wire in Victoria Park, Hackney, during the 2012 Games.
“Both Ken and Boris in their different ways have been mayors for the moment, but I think I could be mayor for the moment, because what London needs is delivery and change, otherwise this city is facing a crisis, and it’s facing a crisis because there aren’t enough homes for Londoners to buy or rent that they have got any chance of being able to afford.
“So here I am, developing a plan for London, which I will offer the Labour Party in London. And I hope when the time comes they will choose me. I feel completely exhilarated by the possibility.”
Dame Tessa also told how her worst time in Parliament was during the scandal which saw her separate for a time from her husband, David Mills over his links to the disgraced former Italian prime minister Silvio Burlusconi.
She said: “It was a terrible chapter. It wasn’t just days, weeks, it was years of misery. Our family was destroyed for a time
“Afterwards is worse, you feel like road kill, the pack’s moved on to somebody else, somebody else’s house is being mobbed.
“I felt terrible about my children, terrible about what they went through.

David Mills, Tessa Jowell's husband, who she is now reconciled with.
“I think I’m fair game. But my family are not fair game, they’re private citizens and none of them are seeking election.
“When you’ve been through something like that you’re never the same again. But also you should never be a victim. We choose these things, we choose these lives. This is brutal, but it doesn’t mean you stop believing in why you’re doing what you’re doing.”
Dame Tessa also described how, having persuaded a reluctant Tony Blair on a veranda at No 10 in 2002 to back London’s bid to host the 2012 games, the experience of helping to organise them over the following 10 years was the most important experience of her time in the Commons, culminating in the high point of attending the Opening Ceremony.
“We all had this sense of 100 per cent commitment to what we were doing together, to each other,” she said.
“That was a really wonderful experience of working with world class people.”
Dame Tessa also brushed off suggestions that she was blindly loyal to Mr Blair, saying: “I don’t like the term loyalist. Loyalty is strength, not weakness.
“People who are loyal and effective are people who are incredibly tough in private and also are prepared to go out in public and defend something they may not feel 100 per cent about because it’s the only way functioning government survives.”
ahead of the 2015 election here

