Could yoga soon be an Olympic sport?
By Theo Merz
9:39AM BST 30 May 2014
Comments
Competitive yoga sounds like a bit of an oxymoron. Isn’t yoga supposed to be an individual enterprise with inner peace as its aim; and isn’t competition, well, about beating other people?
But this weekend sees the 11th annual World Yoga Sports Championships, held for the first time in London. Around 90 participants from 25 countries - including Russia, China and Australia - will come together to compete in male, female and junior categories.
Yoga competitions have been held in India for several decades, but are relatively new in the Western world. For these two-day championships, competitors have three minutes to impress a panel of judges with seven yoga poses, before being marked on flexibility, strength, balance and technique.
Joseph Encinia, a New Yorker who won the competition in 2011 and has come to London to take part again this year, says the championships have as much in common with gymnastics as they do many forms of yoga.
“People always ask how you can have a yoga competition, but there are huge similarities between top athletes and top yogi,” the 28-year-old says. “The mental zone you need to be in for a competition is pretty much the same thing you get through yoga and meditation. When you’re in that zone you have a clear mind, you’re not going to get distracted by the audience, you have an awareness of yourself.”
Yoga can help you stay forever young like Ryan Giggs
Yoga better for your brain than exercise, study finds
Lithe spirit: meet Britain's leading yoga teacher
Encinia, who spends three hours a day practicing his yoga, is also used to people who scoff at the idea of it being a sport. “You need to be very strong and very flexible to do these things, it requires a lot of skill.
“Sometimes other guys will be disrespectful. They’ll say, ‘You think you’re a champion just because you won a yoga competition,’ but then I’ll show them a posture and ask them to try it. The conversation’s usually over pretty fast.”
And he reveals the long-term goal of the International Yoga Sports Federation, the body behind the championships being held in London, is to see yoga a part of the Olympics. While Encinia suggests it will be at least 20 years before this happens, members of the International Olympic Committee are already coming to watch competitions.
“I definitely think yoga could make it to the Olympics,” the full-time instructor says. “I’ve had professional athletes who come to my class and they can’t keep up, so it’s hard enough.”
Encinia himself credits yoga with changing his life twice. After a childhood beset with serious health issues - including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis and a heart attack at the age of 13 - he tried various forms of exercise as an adolescent. It was yoga which he found best helped him control his weight and develop muscle mass. He now no longer suffers from health problems.
Then, after winning the championship three years ago, he was able to travel the world to give demonstrations, and has visited 23 new countries since his victory.
“The atmosphere at the competition is very fun,” he says. “People are very supportive of each other - it’s more about being able to hold your body and your nerve when you’re up on stage than taking on anyone else.
“I’d still like to win again though.”
The World Yoga Sports Championship takes place May 31st – June 1st at Logan Hall, University of London

