Olivier Giroud needs more love from Arsenal fans
By Ben Bloom
4:53PM GMT 21 Mar 2015
Comments
It was Martin Keown who this week asked why Arsenal supporters do not really love Olivier Giroud. Where strikers like Sergio Aguero, Diego Costa and Harry Kane are worshipped by their own fans, Giroud is accepted and at most appreciated by the Emirates regulars. Surely it is now time they begin to show some love for their French forward. Two goals at St James's Park mean he now has eight in his last nine Premier League games for the Gunners. He was also arguably the standout man in the 2-0 win in Monaco this week. Any problems Arsenal may have are not down to Giroud who seems to only be going from strength to strength.

A tired Sanchez is still better than no Sanchez
Arsene Wenger has repeatedly insisted that Alexis Sanchez is in need of a break, while refusing to rest his star man. It was something that the Arsenal manager reiterated before this match before starting the Chilean yet again and Sanchez rewarded him with a trademark hard-working performance. One piece of skill to flick the ball over Gouffran's head was a moment of mastery and countless Newcastle attacks were snubbed out by Sanchez working hard to help out his defence. Wenger knows he cannot afford to do without him.

• All today's scores • Premier League table - as it stands
Few players are more frustrating than Danny Welbeck
Arsenal are not short of talented attacking players and Danny Welbeck is up there with the best of them. His move from Manchester United should have revitalised a faltering career but all too often he falls short at the last. As regularly happens with Welbeck, the England man was more than willing to take on his opposite number and beat them only to waste the opportunity with a poor touch or by choosing the wrong option. That word "waste" is one that Welbeck risks being associated with his career at the moment. So much talent but all too often so little end product.

Newcastle's defensive problems are a real concern
That Jack Colback was forced to line-up in a back four alongside Mike Williamson, Daryl Janmaat and Ryan Taylor today showed the paucity of Newcastle's defensive options. John Carver's side have kept just two clean sheets this calendar year and looked ready to burst from the outset against Arsenal. Try as they might to recover something from the game in the second half, the damage had already been done by shipping two goals in the opening period. Injuries have done them no favours but whoever Mike Ashley selects as his new manager in the summer will have a tough task rebuilding the defensive ranks.

Did you know Telegraph Sport has an ?

Newcastle's players responded to Carver's call
On paper this should have been an easy victory for Arsenal. The visitors had won their last five Premier League games, look nailed on for a top-four spot and they burst out of the blocks to take an early 2-0 lead. At that point it looked as though the visitors could score four or five. But the second half was a different story as Newcastle piled on the pressure with wave after wave of attack. They had Arsene Wenger's side rattled for a long period and the Londoners will have been relieved to depart with all three points. This week John Carver told his players they had to prove they deserved to stay at the club in the summer and his words clearly had some effect. Play like they did in the second half again and they will trouble the majority of teams in the top flight.


