Scotland v England: Roy Hodgson warns players to prepare for ambush at Celtic Park on Tuesday
By Henry Winter, Football Correspondent
10:30PM GMT 16 Nov 2014
Comments
Roy Hodgson has warned his players of the ambush lying in wait at Celtic Park on Tuesday night. England travel to Glasgow on Monday aware that Gordon Strachan’s revived side, and the impassioned Tartan Army, are ready for them. “We know what we are in for,’’ Hodgson said.
England have not lost in Glasgow since 1985, and Paul Scholes tore Scotland apart on the last visit for a Euro 2000 play-off, a 2-0 win at Hampden Park, yet Hodgson is fully aware of the lurking dangers.
“I’m going to put 11 players on the field and make it clear this is going to be a tough game,” the England manager said.
“I’m expecting them to go out and do their jobs and ideally come away with a result and if we don’t we are going to be unhappy. I preach to the players that every time you play for England it is important whether it’s San Marino, Germany or Brazil or Scotland away.”
He knows the atmosphere will be raucous, potentially intimidating.
Reports of Rooney’s death are premature
Hodgson to ring the changes
England v Slovenia: as it happened
'I will never quit England... I know I'd regret it forever'
“It will be, the Scottish fans are exceptional, especially at Celtic Park where they are very good at supporting their team,” he said. “It’s a fantastic atmosphere from watching it on TV [against the Republic of Ireland on Friday]. That’s what we need.”
With England coasting through Euro 2016 qualifying, a proper test is welcome. “We know there are a lot of stern tests ahead of us and it starts on Tuesday night and we will learn lessons. I hope the players who get a chance to play will be able to stand up to any pressures and the crowd pressure and learn from it. Any lessons we take from it will only be valuable in the future.”
Fraser Forster is expected to start on his old ground while Hodgson is looking to involve Nathaniel Clyne, Calum Chambers, Luke Shaw, Ross Barkley and Saido Berahino.
“I will change the team but we are not looking to play a totally different team up in Scotland because we know that is going to be a tough game and a game like that will probably tell me a little bit more about this team.
“We know what we are in for and we know the way we play and we are up for it. I am going to need some experienced players on the field. I can’t just make wholesale changes because we want to go up there and give a performance.”
Berahino and Barkley are definitely in his thoughts.
“Of course they are. I wouldn’t be averse to giving them starting positions because if I was I shouldn’t have called them up in the first place. You have six substitutes and that is a great advantage for a coach.
“Stewart Downing injured his knee slightly in a training accident on Thursday. We thought, and he thought, he was going to be OK on Saturday but when he started the warm-up he still felt it. I do believe he’ll be available to use against Scotland and that’s good news because I would like to see him in an England shirt at some stage during the game.’’
At least Hodgson can look forward to a decent pitch following Wembley’s damaging flirtation with gridiron.
“They [the Football Association] have got financial decisions but as a football person I have to be in the camp that would like to see this place lying fallow virtually all the year apart from seven or eight occasions but it would be naive of me to think it is ever going to happen.
“The FA agreed when I said: ‘I’m going to get questions on the pitch and questions on football vis-à-vis NFL and you can’t expect me to defend the decisions made by the commercial side of the enterprise, you have to allow me to speak as a football person.’ ”
Hodgson has also been drawn into the dispute over Eric Dier’s decision not to make himself available for Gareth Southgate’s under-21s during this international week because he wanted to spend the time, developing centre-half attributes in training at Tottenham Hotspur.
“My understanding is that Gareth spoke to Eric, his club, and even the lad’s father,’’ Hodgson said.
“And they decided at this moment in time, the best thing for Eric was not to join up. What I know of Dier and working with him, I don’t think you have to question his desire to play. He does find himself – as sometimes happens with players – in difficult situations.
“He broke into the first team. I bet he’s desperate to keep his place in the first team. Maybe on this occasion the conversation he had with Gareth was the best for both parties.”
There is a perception of Dier in certain quarters of the England age-group structure of his being a slightly “wooden” centre-half so any development is to be encouraged. Arguably he could have done that under Southgate, one of England’s most capped centre-halves.

