England v France: Hosts go close to winning Six Nations but should take big positives in to World Cup
By Will Greenwood
7:45AM GMT 22 Mar 2015
Follow the match with IBM TryTracker
With 231 points and 27 tries scored, Saturday was undoubtedly the most entertaining day in Six Nations history. That will not console Stuart Lancaster and England, however. Champagne will have not been reached for in the home dressing room at Twickenham. Instead, a fug of nagging frustration will have dominated – more so than Deep Heat – as Ireland defended their crown, and rightly so.
England had the advantage of playing France last in the final game of the championship, knowing what they needed to do to secure the title, requiring a winning margin of 26 at HQ. Ultimately they managed only 20, with 55-35, and almost shoved over for their eighth try of the evening with a mass driving maul at the end of a dramatic denouement. It wasn’t to be.
They easily hit two of their three Keys to the Game, as suggested by IBM TryTracker – 22 French defenders were beaten when the aim was 17; George Ford had 10 shots at goal (and kicked nine of them), which was four more than the recommended target. Their last Key to the Game, which was not met, was their tackle percentage – 91 was the bar, and 86 was what they achieved. In among that France scored five tries.
TryTracker’s Keys to the Game for the visitors hinted at where they went wrong. The 44 per cent kick-success rate was pitiful, with the usually reliable Jules Plisson and then Rory Kockott, who was later entrusted with the duties, misfiring badly – between them France lost out on 15 points. (Ford missed one conversion by comparison.)
England v France: Infographic
Youngs confirmed as Key Influencer in poll
Eng v Fra: Action from Twickenham
#AskGreens post England-France
The French hit only one of their targets, achieving exactly 16 turnovers. They were a way off with their scrum success rate (71.4 per cent, almost 20 per cent lower than recommended), but Philippe Saint-André’s side showed that they can be a dangerous World Cup beast. If the former Sale Sharks coach had been consistent with his selection then with the players at his disposal the French could have won the Six Nations. If Saint-André picks the same combinations in the World Cup warm-up games they will be more confident and organised, and hard to tackle. Even though Les Bleus lost by 20 points they will have a spring in their step looking ahead.
Indeed, it was so ding-dong and cavalier – almost the Kevin Keegan school of sport – that England effectively had to win the game three times. Going in to the match there was a huge level of expectation, and pressure, on the hosts. Lancaster’s team had one hand on the Six Nations trophy. It may not be the be all and end all – the World Cup is six months away, of course.
But Chris Robshaw and the Twickenham crowd would have dearly loved a lap of honour. Instead the focus will be on their last two matches at HQ, the win versus France and the 25-13 success over Scotland. It was last weekend, against the Scots, when England made it hard for themselves, creating a hatful of chances and not finishing enough of them off.
In spite of all that, there are reasons to be fundamentally upbeat. England are unbeaten at home this year, and no side will fancy their chances against them on the hallowed Twickenham turf come the World Cup.
Ben Youngs – TryTracker’s Key Influencer – had a splendid game, crossing for two tries, and he is developing a good understanding with Ford, who is turn is releasing his back line. You always know that England will have a strong pack (though James Haskell’s ill-thought-through trip which led to him being sin-binned at a crucial moment was particularly daft), and now they possess attacking players who at the very least are not afraid to give it a go.
With Ford pulling the strings attack is certainly the best form of defence. It makes for great entertainment, and if Lancaster’s players work on the areas they need to champagne corks might well be popping in the autumn.
Change how you talk about the game at and via on Twitter

