http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570377/s/44a6e8fd/sc/35/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Csixnations0C114875250CSix0ENations0E20A150EFive0Ethings0Ewe0Elearned0Eon0Efinal0Eday0Bhtml/story01.htm
Six Nations 2015: Five things we learned on final day
By Nicholas Randall
7:11PM GMT 21 Mar 2015
Comments
England have real attacking potential in their backs
They might not always be as precise as they would wish with their passing, but the England backline poses a serious attacking threat. Ben Youngs was brilliant and Jonathan Joseph again showed he is a dazzling centre, as England ran up 55 points at Twickenham. True, the French defence was not what it might have been, but almost every time England got the ball they looked as though they had five points in them. In the end, they were let down by their defence, by not converting all their chances against Scotland and condeding too many points against Italy.

George North is unstoppable
It had been a quiet tournament for the wing. His main impact was to re-ignite the debate over the dangers of concussion when he was knocked out in the first game against England. As a result he missed the second match and came into the final round of the tournament having not scored in four internationals – a run dating back to the autumn. But he made up for all of that in a scintillating 10-minute spell in which he ran in three tries. It turned what was looking like a mundane Welsh win, which would have counted them out of the Championship running, into a rout. And in case anyone had forgotten, it showed that, on his day, no one can get near him no matter how big the occasion.

• Six Nations Super Saturday - how the day unfolded • Italy 20 Wales 61: George North brilliance in vain for Welsh • Scotland 10 Ireland 40: Irish eyes smiling after Murrayfield rout
Playing last is not necessarily an advantage
For all the benefits of England knowing precisely what they had to do, the game in Rome showed the advantage of innocence. If Wales had known they needed to win by, say, precisely 40 points, would they have been able to play with the same freedom? As it was, they ground their way to a one-point half-time lead and then, with all the experts suggesting they were out of, pinned back their ears and tore Italy apart in the second period.

It is now a two-tier championship
Scotland and Italy are light years behind the rest of the competition (even France). Vern Cotter, it was widely believed, had really toughened up this Scotland side. But there has been painfully little sign of any quality from them in a tournament that will be bound to renew calls for relegation. They provided little opposition to Ireland on Saturday and their defeat at home against Italy was put into an even harsher light by the way the Welsh ran riot in Rome.

Nigel Owens is a world class referee
There were plenty of big, controversial decisions to be made at Twickenham and, by common consensus, Nigel Owens got them all right. He had appealed before the game for people to abuse him for his performance rather than on homophobic grounds.

An absolute pleasure & privilege to ref one of the best games of rugby ever . Huge credit to England & France for making it a great game
There was no reason for that here. What’s more, he played a key part in letting the game flow, which contributed to an astonishing feast of attacking rugby.

