Today on YouTube: Simone Biles attacked by a bee at the Gymnastics World Championships
By Telegraph Sport
9:32PM BST 12 Oct 2014
Comments
Simone Biles conquered the world in the World Gymnastics Championships but she was swiftly brought down to earth when she arrived to the medal ceremony.
The American was just about to mount the podium after retaining her all-round title when a bee flew out of her bouquet of flowers and proceeded to attack the alarmed athlete.
As the 17-year-old ducked, cowered and sidestepped, the performance might have have lacked the elegance of her winning routine but it made for a rather delightful spectacle nonetheless.
Fortunately, she emerged unscathed, but only after hurling the bouquet to the floor and leaping into the arms of team-mate and bronze medal-winner Kyla Ross.
"I tried to get the bee off and then the bee chased me, and then it got on Kyla," Biles said. "I'm so sorry Kyla. I just don't do bugs!"
GB brought back down to earth
Whitlock wins world all-around silver
Gymnasts make the strangest faces
GB seal world final place
And another thing ...
High-school American football delivers most inspirational interview ever
New Zealand's Tall Blacks' haka confuses the USA basketball team
Angry Jermain Defoe demands to take free-kick for Toronto FC
What happened when Shaun Tait tried to hit the Go Pro off Adam Gilchrist's helmet? Take a look
Mark Cavendish fails to win the first stage of the Tour de France in Yorkshire, after crashing out in the final moments of the sprint.
Yorkshire pair Finch and Lyth pull off a wonder catch during a T20 match against Leicestershire
Mayor Eric Garcetti celebrates LA Kings Stanley Cup with an F-word on live TV
Maldives striker re-invents penalty kick with bizarre swallow dive.
Gaël Monfils and Laurent Lokoli break into dance-off at Roland Garros. Monfils is the clear winner.
Brazil's Bruno Xavier scores the greatest beach football goal . . . ever
Smooth young baseball fan hands match ball to pretty lady - or does he?
Auckland schoolboy Taniela Tupou looks an awesome rugby prospect. The new Jonah Lomu?
Andre Villas-Boas, head coach of Russian Premier League leaders Zenit St Petersburg, runs onto the pitch in a vain attempt to stop a horde of drunken hooligans bent on attacking players from rivals Dynamo Moscow.
Kyoto Sanga FC beat J-League rivals Tokohama FC 2-0, with the second goal involving this rather extravagant four-man step over. (It's playfulness recalls this beauty by German side Rot-Weiss Essen last year ...)
Kieron Pollard throws his bat at Mitchell Starc during heated IPL clash
Sir Roger Bannister's famous sub-four-minute mile from 1954
McLaren's touching tribute on 20th anniversary of Senna's death
Spanish footballers don disguises to work with average Joes in heart-warming vid
Samoan rugby player prompts laughter from the crowd as he takes comedy dive
Fifa release official World Cup song 'We Are One (Ole Ola)'
Daniel Sturridge surprises schoolkids before teaching them his dance celebration
Japan rugby sevens player Kosuke Hashino attempts swan dive – and fails
Nautico player Izaldo scores comedy own goal at the second attempt
Brett Morris scores amazing rugby league try with sensational flying touchdown
Wayne Rooney adds to David Moyes's embarrassment by nutmegging him during training
Neymar makes young South African pitch invader's day as Brazil romp to victory in friendly
Hoffenheim mascot loses his head while celebrating a goal
John Wall jumps over mascot to win dunk contest at NBA All Star Weekend
Italian footballer headbutts dugout after scoring a goal and is sent off
Real Sociedad goalkeeper Enaut Zubikarai scored an unfortunate, and bizarre, own-goal to help Barcelona to a 2-0 lead in their Copa del Rey first leg match at Camp Nou.
Former Fifa Player of the Year Ronaldinho releases his debut song
Spectator wins £50,000 after brilliant catch off New Zealand batsman Corey Anderson
Sporting Lisbon youngsters go wild as Cristiano Ronaldo wins the Ballon d'Or

