Commonwealth Games 2014: Claudia Fragapane floors her rivals to enter the record books
By Tom Cary, in Glasgow
8:32PM BST 01 Aug 2014
Comments
She ended it with her piece de resistance: a mesmerising, body-popping, “hip-hoppy” floor routine that had the Hydro, Glasgow’s gymnastics venue, hosed from the word go.
Claudia Fragapane, the 16-year-old 4ft 6in 'Pocket Rocket’ from Bristol, has been one of the great stories of these Games and she did not disappoint on the final day of the gymnastics on Friday, writing herself into the record books with a glorious last chapter.
In claiming a fourth gold on the floor to add to the three she had won already in the vault, the all-round and the team, Fragapane became the first Englishwoman to win four Commonwealth golds in a single Games since the first edition in 1930, when only 11 nations competed. Only Sally Gunnell, with five golds (and one silver) spread across three Games, has ever won more golds in total.
“I’m speechless,” Fragapane said when told of the record, her face lighting up. “It’s just incredible. I had nothing to lose on the floor. It was my last time competing here so I just went out and enjoyed it.
“[With the floor routine] I can express myself and just go wild, because I’m so bouncy and everything. It’s just great.”
Pooley delivers for England with a 'leap of faith'
Commonwealth Games day 11: as it happened
Fragapane bags third gold medal
Whitlock claims third gold of Games
England gymnasts sweep podium
Whitlock claims gymnastics gold
Fragapane is as bouncy talking as she is on the gym apparatus. And it is not hard to see where she gets her energy, what with her parents living and breathing her every move up in the stands. Her father, incidentally, decided to forego the Italian football top he has been wearing this week but could not totally disguise his heritage, opting for a red Ferrari polo shirt instead.
He has produced a high-octane daughter. There was such an energy about Fragapane’s performance, such innovation to the routine, that the result never really seemed in doubt and the judges’ score of 14.541 was miles ahead of second-placed Lauren Mitchell, of Australia, with 13.833. Elsabeth Black, of Canada, took the bronze.
William Hill immediately installed Fragapane as a 33/1 outsider to win the BBC Sports Personality of the Year trophy, predicting she could “bother some of the big boys and girls come award night”. Quite a feat for someone only born in 1997.
“I was six years old,” Fragapane said of her route into gymnastics. “I was so bubbly, jumping all over the house and my mum wanted me to get me doing something so I started off in Kingswood and straightaway I just loved it. I liked the determination and I wanted to progress.”
That determination was noted by Beth Tweddle, the great trailblazer for British gymnasts, who noted Fragapane’s work ethic.
“Claudia Fragapane is so special, and so talented. She has a great work ethic. When she’s in the gym and something isn’t quite right, she looks to her coach to find out how she can do it better and works constantly on it,” Tweddle said.
“In gymnastics terms she’s still a baby but winning four golds will give her so much confidence. They have nicknamed her the 'Pocket Rocket’ because she flies and has so much power for her size.”
Nowhere is that more obvious than in her floor routine. Fragapane had already passed up one opportunity for gold, coming fifth on the beam, before attacking her final event with gusto. She said it reflected her personality. “Yes it does, my floor routine is very bubbly and hip hoppy. Gymnastics is about needing to love it and going for it 100 per cent.”
If Fragapane’s performance was the highlight of the final day, then Daniel Purvis’s gold in the parallel bars was the most popular with the crowd.
Purvis edged England’s Nile Wilson into silver with Max Whitlock taking bronze.
Earlier, England’s Kristian Thomas won silver in the men’s vault and Wales’ Georgina Hockenhull bronze on the beam.
Whitlock, who missed the chance to claim a fourth gold of his own at these Games, said the trio of Brits on the podium in the parallel bars boded well for the bigger competitions where the likes of China, Russia and the United States dominate.
Not that Fragapane is cowed by the prospect of locking horns with the superpowers of world gymnastics. She is aiming for perfection.
Asked whether she knew much about the exploits of Nadia Comaneci and Olga Korbut, she grinned. “They are amazing. They inspire me. The fact they got a perfect 10, to know it is possible.
She added: “I’m expecting to get to the floor final at the worlds [in China in October] and then hopefully get in the top three. If not then I know how hard to work.”
Any type of hip-hoppy gold there and William Hill will be forced to drastically reduce her odds for the SPOTY crown.

