Commonwealth Games 2014: Renicks sisters Kimberley and Louise pull off a golden double for Scotland in judo
By Alasdair Reid, Glasgow
10:53PM BST 24 Jul 2014
Comments
Kimberley Renicks launched Scotland’s haul of gold medals at the Commonwealth Games by winning the women’s 48kg judo title on Thursday night, and within an hour had another victory to celebrate as her sister, Louise, came out on top in the 52kg class.
Kimberley’s win was achieved in dramatic fashion as she threw India’s Shushila Likmabam for ippon, bringing the contest to an immediate end. Louise’s fight was a far tenser affair, settled in the dying seconds when Kelly Edwards, her English opponent, was disqualified for picking up a fourth shido, judo’s equivalent of a yellow card.
“It’s just incredible to be here as Scotland’s first gold medallist,” said Kimberley, 26, the younger of the two siblings by five years. “I’m so proud. I’ve been nervous all day, but the crowd in here really lifts you. It’s what I’ve been training and working for so to be here now is the best feeling in the world. I’m just over the moon.”
Ashley McKenzie, the so-called ‘Bad Boy Olympian’, put his disappointments of 2012 – where he went out in the first round – when he took England’s first gold on the judo mat, beating Navjot Chana, of India, in the 60kg class in a bout that was interrupted by a lengthy delay due to a frozen scoreboard.
“It’s just amazing to be here,” said McKenzie, who attended a special school for ADHD sufferers in his youth. “I didn’t have the best of starts in life and I never thought I would be somewhere like this. I’m pleased to be here and I’m pleased for the people who got me here as well.”
Subtitles needed for judo
Sir Chris Hoy asked for ID to enter the Sir Chris Hoy velodrome
Brownlee boys claim gold and silver
Miley claims Scotland's first gold
Wiggins: I've given up road racing
Stimpson wins gold in triathlon
Colin Oates was another Englishman who missed out on a medal at the Olympics two years ago, finishing seventh. However, like McKenzie a few minutes earlier, Oates, who is now based at the celebrated Ratho club in Scotland, also redeemed himself by winning gold, this time in the 66kg division.
Afterwards, Oates admitted that failure two years ago had been the spur that drove him on. “If I ever start to doubt myself, or doubt my love for the sport, I look back at that moment. Now, I need to pushing on and doing something special.
“Judo is a cruel sport. You can be fighting at your best, lose concentration for a moment, make one little mistake and you’re out. But all those little disappointments drive you on. Success gives you confidence but it’s disappointment that makes you work harder.”
Nekoda Davis won a third gold for England in the women’s 57kg event, beating Scotland’s Stephanie Inglis in the final. Lisa Kearney took a bronze for Northern Ireland in the 52kg category.

