Chris Pennell opens up about his diabetes and insists he has no regrets about staying with Worcester Warriors
By Daniel Schofield
9:28PM GMT 26 Dec 2014
Comments
Chris Pennell is used to doing things the hard way. Ever since he was diagnosed with type one diabetes aged 19, the Worcester Warriors full-back realised life was going to be full of challenges.
In a fog of confusion over what that meant for his dreams of being a professional rugby player, Pennell frantically Googled as much out of hope as he was searching for rock-solid answers. That Sir Steve Redgrave, who won this fifth consecutive gold medal at the Sydney Olympics three years after finding out that he was diabetic, was at the top of his search results gave Pennell all the inspiration he needed to continue.
“When I was told I had no idea what impact it would have on my rugby,” Pennell said. “To find out that Sir Steve Redgrave was diagnosed late on but still went on to achieve what he did just gave me that instant reassurance and confidence that you can still achieve what you want to achieve.”
To that end, Pennell recently signed up as an ambassador for Diabetes UK. “If I can have that effect on anyone that would be fantastic,” Pennell said. “Ultimately through these experiences I am going to get a lot out of it personally and hopefully other people will benefit as well.”
That selfless attitude was also in evidence when he signed a new contract with his hometown club last season even though they were already destined for relegation to the Championship. He had the option of staying in the Premiership with two top-six sides vying for his signature after an astonishing individual season in which he was on the shortlist for Aviva Premiership Player of the Year.
‘All my brothers are bigger than me, but my mum won’t let them play rugby’
Cheating has reached new levels
Smith defends Dan Leo red card
Scrum shambles needs fixing... and I know how
He chose to stay put, leaving behind the bright lights of the Premiership for trips to Plymouth and Molesey, but the 27-year-old has no regrets. Loyalty — “an old fashioned quality” — played a part, but the greater pull was the faith he had in Dean Ryan’s long-term plan at Sixways.
“If I can achieve things at Worcester that they have never achieved before, then that is going to be far more rewarding than if I was part of a bigger team that has won the Premiership several times before,” Pennell said. “The prospect of finishing my career saying I was a part of the first Worcester team to finish in the top four is a lot more exciting.”
He has hope too of getting back involved with England after making his debut on the tour to New Zealand this summer. Stuart Lancaster, the head coach, told him he would still be considered for international selection in the second tier. Although he missed the autumn internationals with a groin injury, just to feature in the “not available for selection” footnote of the squad announcements had a profound effect on him.
“I know it was just being included on an injured players list but it meant so much more than that,” Pennell said. “I had conversations with the England management before the summer tour and they were men of the word, which was great. The ball very much remains in my court as to what I do with that opportunity. In terms of their end of the bargain, they have done their bit so it is over to me.”

