http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569252/s/4191a321/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Cnewzealand0C1130A0A3830CAll0EBlack0EDan0ECarter0Erugbys0Efirst0E1m0Ea0Eyear0Eplayer0Bhtml/story01.htm
All Black Dan Carter – rugby's first £1m-a-year player
By Daniel Schofield
12:08AM GMT 18 Dec 2014
Comments
Racing Métro are poised to announce the signing of All Blacks fly half Dan Carter as the world’s first £1 million player at a press conference in Paris on Thursday.
Carter has long been a target for the big-spending Top 14 side and has agreed lucrative terms to join after World Cup next year. By that stage, Carter will be 33 and despite the player suffering 10 separate injuries since Oct 2011, Racing president Jacky Lorenzetti has shown no hesitation in opening the chequebook to sign the greatest fly half of his generation.
Racing had previously considered moving for Matt Giteau to replace Jonathan Sexton, who is returning to Leinster at the end of this season. Giteau instead signed a lucrative new contract worth £700,000 a season at Toulon in September, paving the way for Carter to become the world’s highest-paid player. He will earn €1.5million (about £1.2 million) a year, even though Racing have also recently announced the signing of Remi Tales, the France stand off.
Few would begrudge Carter such a payday. For all his many accomplishments and accolades as the world record points scorer, he remains a remarkably down-to-earth individual and has had rotten luck with injuries since a groin strain ruled him out of the World Cup knockout stages in 2011. He took a six-month sabbatical this year that was supposed to allow his body to recover only to fracture his right fibula in the Super Rugby final a couple of games into his comeback, which ruled him out of the Rugby Championship.
That has allowed Aaron Cruden and Beauden Barrett to stake their claims for the New Zealand No 10 shirt, but there is no doubt that a fit and firing Carter would be selected to spearhead the All Blacks’ defence of their World Cup crown. With New Zealand holding a policy of not selecting overseas-based players, the tournament could prove to be his international swansong.
Rugby's richlist: Top 10 earners
How to do the Haka in 11 steps
Wales subside against All Blacks once again
All Blacks unconvincing in stuttering win over Scots
Both Carter and Racing will hope that his move proves to be more successful than his previous spell in France when he signed for Perpignan in 2008. Again, he became the world’s highest-paid player on a £500,000 six-month deal only to rupture his Achilles tendon in just his sixth game for the club.
Carter is unlikely to be the only All Black who will be staying in Europe after the World Cup. Mourad Boudjellal, the Toulon owner, has repeatedly made reference to signing the Quatre Fantastiques, which almost certainly includes Richie McCaw, Conrad Smith and Ma’a Nonu. Premiership clubs are simply unable to compete against such riches. Even a middling Top 14 club such as Bordeaux-Begles on Wednesday announced the signing of Australia back Adam Ashley Cooper.
