Will Greenwood's rugby trends of 2014: cheating has reached new levels
By Will Greenwood
8:07PM GMT 26 Dec 2014
Comments
Another year comes to an end and with it a number of key moments and issues that stick in my mind. This year was always going to be an odd one to categorise. A year out from the World Cup, there were scandals and infighting, wonderful tries, an All Black near record, financial issues and regulation tweaks. The year 2014 turned out to be a cracker. Here are five issues that stand out. Next stop is 2015, we all know what happens then …
1) Rugby De Niro – An Acting Masterclass
Cheating and playacting is going to a new level, particularly at the breakdowns. Players make a tackle and occasionally get swung round into the wrong position.
Historically, anyone on the wrong side of the ball was usually trying to slow it down. Even in today’s more watched world, players try to steal the ball as the tackler, and if they get buried in the ruck they try to remove themselves slowly and still slow the attacking side down. Referees are pretty strong on this.
But attacking sides now have a different slant on it. They do quite a few things now in an attempt to con the ref; they hold the tackler into the ruck, they hold the tackler down, they grab his foot, his arm, his shirt and all so they can try to win a penalty. Basically they look to slow the ball down to win a fake penalty against the opposition for slowing the ball down.
Homer poised to scuttle Welsh hopes of escape
Scrum shambles needs fixing... and I know how
Goode could lose Wasps place to Gopperth
Short ban frees Hartley to play in Six Nations
The dark arts are to be revered but I worry that we have gone too far.
There is a funnier version of attracting the referee’s attention, and it reached comic-book levels in a European game recently between Castres and Wasps. To show the ref a player on the wrong side, James Haskell, never one to underplay his hand, basically attacked the offending Castres player with the ball. He began beating him over the head and shoulder like the fishmonger from Asterix, as if he were trying to place the ball exactly there. A referee’s job is hard enough without this comedy acting.
2) World Cup Women – A Game-changing Year
Women’s rugby is going from strength to strength. England finally won the World Cup, beating Canada, after having lost three finals. Televised games at the tournament were a big event for Sky and audience numbers are up. Gary Street, England’s coach, was shortlisted for the coach award at the BBC Sports Personality of the Year, alongside the winner, Ryder Cup captain Paul McGinley – that’s how big an achievement the win was.
They also have players who have dedicated themselves to rugby, none more so than Maggie “the machine” Alphonsi, who has now retired from front-line flanker play and is still the hardest-working, nicest person I know. The way Maggie and captain Katy McLean spoke at the BBC SPOTY, when they won Team of the Year, was a credit to our sport. Articulate, measured, you could not ask for better ambassadors.
For many of the women playing at the highest level, the money is also starting to come, and 20 players have been handed professional contracts. The game is pro and after years of juggling careers, an increasing number of players are getting the chance to dedicate themselves fully to the sport they love. As a result, skill levels have soared. Danielle Waterman and Emily Scarratt scored tries in the final that Jason Robinson and Jeremy Guscott would have been proud of.
The game is fast, slick and there is an attacking intent that makes the women’s game not only good to watch, but often more exciting and interesting than the men’s. I was at a dinner at Twickenham recently with Waterman and Rachael Burford. When they spoke you could hear a pin drop. Respect is being earned and given. The game has changed. Women’s rugby is on a charge.
3) Brucie’s Bonus – Strictly Line-out Lunacy
At times, the line-out has morphed into a grassy version of Strictly Come Dancing. And it is the maul’s fault. It has become such a powerful weapon that sides are keener and keener to use it to exert pressure from all parts of the pitch, not least when they can gamble and go for seven points.
The line-out has now become the best place to set up a rolling maul. But defending teams now back away from the line-out when the ball is thrown, allowing the attacking team to set up their side of the maul. The defending side know that if their opponents fail to make contact before setting up their maul, then advance and come into contact with the defending team, they will be penalised for blocking. They will be deemed to have players not connected with the ball, driving ahead of the ball, to clear the way. To try to get around this, the attacking team are sending out octopus arms in the hope of dragging a defending team into the ruck. There have been serious stand-offs – arms waggling and waving like a contemporary routine. Two to three seconds of the defending team waiting to see what the attacking side do.
The referee is hoping a maul will form or the attacking side will break out with the ball and use it elsewhere. Some defensive sides then send one defender round to the back of the maul to steal the ball.
The rule makers need to make sure that there are always two sides willing to tango, otherwise it will be pandemonium all round.
4) All Blacks To Basics – The Old Art of Surprise
Over the past 10 years, most three-quarter moves have had decoy runners coming over the top. So this means they run hard, inside-shoulder lines to stop or commit defenders. The ball is then passed behind the decoy runner to an attacker who has taken a wider, outside arc. The plan is that it fixes defenders in the middle, and frees up the pace men in wide channels.
All very well and good. Or so it was until the television match official became a serious pest. Most tries now are normally checked to see if there has been any midfield contact.
With the inside-shoulder decoy runner it can work both ways for you. In the European Cup semi-final last year, when Clermont were buried by Saracens, the game was competitive when the French looked to have scored. The replay showed a decoy line had gone near Owen Farrell, who, knowing the power of TV, went down. Coaches ask you to draw the referee’s attention if you have been impeded and the try was disallowed.
The same man benefited against Samoa, floating a lovely pass behind Brad Barritt to George Ford. Barritt blocked Johnny Leota, Ford ran off and Jonny May scored, accelerating through the hole where Leota would have been. On this occasion a different TMO ruled there had been no infringement, try allowed.
Farrell came out on top both times but a different referee and TMO may have seen both differently. So, as this decoy running has become more of a lottery, the world’s best team, New Zealand, have moved away from this line of running and gone right back to the older style of decoy.
As the No 1 side in World Cup year, you try to remove any areas associated with chance. So now, the All Blacks are using more moves with decoy runners coming under the intended receiver. The fly-half will let the big runner or inside centre drift off him towards the touchline and the decoy runner will appear late on the shoulder of the fly-half. The fly-half can then hit either player with the ball. It can be an aggressive shoulder ball of the late runner or a push across in front of him to the drifting player. At no stage can a referee take a second look. It might not be as effective as the perfect decoy when the ball is passed behind the decoy but the TMO has to twiddle his thumbs. That is great news.
5) England Centres – Who Are You Kidding?
A coaching session at Princethorpe College two weeks ago highlighted England’s biggest and most obvious challenge. The young lads from the under-18s and under-15s were set the challenge of picking the team they wanted to see represent England on opening night of the World Cup on Sept 18, 2015. These lads devour rugby on TV. They watch and see everything. We had five groups picking teams. Most positions had two players in contention, maximum. Some were unanimous. Jonny May, Chris Robshaw, Courtney Lawes, Ben Morgan, Dylan Hartley got the clean sweep. The kids want Danny Care just ahead of Ben Youngs. They love Joe Marler. But at inside centre the lads had five different players: Luther Burrell, Kyle Eastmond, Billy Twelvetrees, Manu Tuilagi and Sam Burgess. If the kids can’t agree, what chance have the grown-ups got?

