<<<<<<< HEAD
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604284/s/34d14b9c/sc/19/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Colympics0Csailing0C10A5178490CSir0EBen0EAinslie0Enow0Ewants0Eto0Ework0Ethe0Eoracle0Efor0EBritains0EAmericas0ECup0Echallenge0Bhtml/story01.htm
=======
>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
Sir Ben Ainslie now wants to work the oracle for Britain's America's Cup challenge
By Paul Hayward, Chief Sports Writer
11:00PM GMT 14 Dec 2013
Comments
In an epic America’s Cup fightback, two of the US Oracle team were admiring a particular manoeuvre a bit too much for Sir Ben Ainslie’s liking. Newly installed as tactician in a crew that was still losing heavily to New Zealand, Britain’s greatest sailor shouted at his chatty colleagues: “Just shut up and steer the boat.”
For such a modest and gentle man, Ainslie radiates an immense amount of authority. A mighty competitive instinct drove him to four consecutive Olympic gold medals and brought him to the rescue of US Oracle, who trailed New Zealand 8-1 in sailing’s most prestigious race before overturning that deficit in a finale that was broadcast with brilliant new on-screen graphics and soaring camera angles.
Ainslie tries to explain the disparity between his on-shore demeanour and his fierceness on a boat: “In competitive scenarios – especially on the water – it’s a different psyche. When I was younger I was very, very shy on land, but I’d go on the water and cause havoc.”
A candidate for the BBC Sports Personality of the Year award this weekend, Ainslie will not be surprised to see Andy Murray take the prize by video-link from Miami. Nor will he begrudge the Wimbledon champion the garland. Ainslie admires people who just want to be good at what they do, without the sideshows and frippery. He admires dedication and persistence. These are some of the qualities that led US Oracle to move him from a management role in the America’s Cup this year to the unfamiliar tactician’s job, weeks after his close friend, Andrew ‘Bart’ Simpson, had been killed practising with the Swedish team. Parachuting in might have been awkward but Ainslie made it work.
He takes up the story: “Obviously, we were talking about what changes we could make to the boat. It became clear we potentially needed to make some changes to the crew as well. We pulled a postponement card and Russell and Jimmy Spithill our skipper got together on the performance boat. We gave them a bit of space so they could have a chat about it, which I imagine was quite a frank conversation.”
Pippa Middleton sails the Solent
A 'tragic day' for Artemis team
America's Cup: watch highlights
NZ skipper 'gutted' after defeat
Ainslie dedicates win to Bart
Skipper celebrates 'greatest win'
US Oracle already had a tactician. But Ainslie was being drafted in. “It was a little bit awkward in that I was replacing someone who really wouldn’t have been expecting that to happen: John Kostecki, who was very professional about it,” he says. “I phoned John and said – look I’m sorry about the situation but I need your support. He was great and said – absolutely, I’m upset, I’m disappointed, but I want what’s best for the team. I’ll come in in the morning and we’ll go through all the data. There was a lot of stuff in his role that I hadn’t worked with before.
“In terms of the rest of the team, on one side there was nothing to lose. Things aren’t going so well - so just get in there, try and do the best job you can. On the other hand it was clear I was going into a job I hadn’t done before, certainly not at that level. Everything’s there on camera and audio. If you go in there and you’re not up to it it’s there for everyone to see. So in some ways there’s a bit of trepidation.”
The demonic winning spirit Ainslie cultivated racing off Cornwall in his boyhood years came to his assistance, along with his experiences of Olympic comebacks and tussles stretching back to 1996. “I certainly did take some experience from sailing with Iain Percy, who had been the tactician I’d sailed with in team sailing, and also from Bart. We sailed together as a unit,” Ainslie says. “Those guys were very clear, very concise, and even if things weren’t going well they’d keep a positive vibe, which is really what you need to do. Even though we were in a crap position I tried to be Mr Positive. We still lost, I think, another four races, when I got on the boat, but through that period I just tried to stay positive and see what we could work on. With those boats, you’re haring around at 50 mph and the wind noise is ridiculous, so to be clear and concise with the other 10 guys to get the manoeuvres right takes a lot of careful choreography.”
It was during this surge from a seemingly hopeless position that Ainslie uttered the immortal battle cry: “This is it. This is it. Work your arses off.” He laughs about this now. But you sense he is not to be messed with on water. Even as a boy he sailed in “ultra-competitive” environments where “we wanted to smash each other”. Hence the “ruthless streak”. What are the underpinnings of this refusal to lose? “Fear of losing, fear of failure. There are a lot of talented people in any walk of life, and what separates people is the desire to make it actually happen.”
Ainslie’s big quest now is to secure funding for a British challenge. With its immense new vessels, macho crewing and spectacular TV graphics, the America’s Cup has the potential to become mass entertainment, especially here, if a serious British bid can be put together. “The Oracle team were definitely fitness orientated because Jimmy [James Spithill, the skipper] was a bit of a fitness freak. He was a New South Wales boxing champion and was into CrossFit - a specific way of training where it’s very fast and very intense and it’s all about the numbers you can do, so it ends up being a competition.
“The guys are having to be athletes. In the old America’s Cup boats you went through short periods of it being intense, then you could be sitting there for five minutes not doing much. With these boats it’s flat out, and then you’ve got to get from side to side, making the right decisions all the time. It’s 25 minutes of madness really. But good for TV. There were a few times when you could have produced a couple more expletives in certain situations but you had to hold yourself back. They did slip out from time to time. I love watching sports where you can hear what they’re saying.”
With Simpson’s death, though, there was a sickening, a brief alienation. “Yes, for a couple of weeks,” Ainslie says. “We were devastated by it. When the accident happened we were sailing next to the Artemis boat [near San Francisco]. It was amazing how quickly everything happened. Four hours later most of us close to Bart were on a flight back to London, that evening, and the next morning we were back in Sherborne where Bart lived trying to support his family. We were sitting around with Iain Percy and one or two of the guys wondering – what are we going to do? Do we want to go back? Something like that does make you sit down and re-evaluate what’s important.
“I guess there were a couple of weeks there when I wasn’t sure what I wanted to do, what it meant. In time you get through the shock, and you think what Bart would have said. It would have been – ‘Stop being so ridiculous, this is your life, what you love doing, and you’ve got to get back out there and get on with it.’ ”
The America’s Cup remains a hard-sell to sponsors, even if a £100 million budget would equate to one Gareth Bale. Ainslie explains: “Oracle have to discuss the next one with the challenger of record, which is the Australian team, and come up with a set of rules. That process takes time. Probably it will be made public next February or March. In the meantime, it’s hard commercially to have these conversations. We can say - we expect it will be in 2017, probably in San Francisco. On the commercial side you can’t sell it until you know the rules, so we’ve had to focus on the private investment side. The main problem is that you can’t change the deed of gift, the fundamental rules, from the early 1900s. As far as anyone can tell it’s almost impossible to change that. It comes up every time as an issue.”
But his final rallying cry of the year, on land, is one that warms the heart. “You have to admire someone like Andy Murray because he’s 100 per cent focused on being the best tennis player he can be and I admire that over other sportsmen that perhaps give something away to pursue other avenues as well. For me, it’s about the sport. No nonsense . They just get on with it and they’re not trying to increase their profile by doing anything other than being bloody good at what they do.”
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
