<<<<<<< HEAD
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/670215/s/42388efc/sc/14/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cwomen0Cwomens0Elife0C113349350CThis0EGirl0ECan0Eadvert0EScared0Eof0Eworking0Eout0EWatch0Ethis0Bhtml/story01.htm
=======
>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
This Girl Can advert: Scared of working out? Watch this
By Olivia Parker
6:30AM GMT 12 Jan 2015
Comments
It’s not the kind of advert you can ignore. A woman in a bikini and swimming cap is seen from behind walking out of a changing room, heading determinedly for a pool. As she goes, she slides two fingers under each side of her bikini bottoms, snapping them straight across her behind. That snap launches the first beat of Missy Elliot’s ‘Get Ur Freak On’, which plays at a manic tempo throughout the extraordinary 90 second ad.
It features women of all ages, colours, shapes and sizes, exercising like their lives depend on it. They hurl themselves across football pitches, run up hills, sweat on spin bikes; they’re boxing, climbing, cycling, swimming, dancing, jumping, whooping. Breasts are bouncing everywhere; mascara runs down sweaty faces; flesh wobbles; cellulite is on full display; breathing is loud and laboured; hair is all over the place. The ad ends with a girl collapsing on the sofa, still wearing her running gear. “I’m knackered”, she breaths as the words ‘This Girl Can’ fill the screen.
So what is it all about?
This Girl Can (and the hashtag #thisgirlcan on Twitter) is the name of a campaign set up by Sport England, the government agency for grassroots sport, to boost the number of women doing exercise.
Why do we need the campaign?
Sport's for us older 'girls' too, you know
Femvertising: Advertisers cash in on #feminism
This agency can: the British firm changing the ad industry
'I learnt to swim aged 38 (pubes and all)'
Sport England looked into various pieces of research by universities and other sports foundations. They found that 2 million fewer women are regularly participating in sport or exercise than men, despite 75 per cent of women aged 14 to 40 saying they’d like to do more.
After a lot of research with focus groups and having talked to many ordinary women on the street, Sport England identified that it is fear of judgment that prevents many women from doing exercise.
“Any woman will tell you about the internal dialogue that goes on in her head, particularly when she thinks about sport, exercise and getting fit”, said Sport England CEO Jennie Price at the launch of This Girl Can.
“It’s stuff like ‘I’m too fat to do this’ or ‘I’m not fit enough to go to that class’, or ‘If I get on that treadmill and press that button and fall off, I’m going to look really stupid and everybody is going to stare at me, and I’m certainly not going to wear those clothes to do it’.”
“We are trying to say it’s perfectly normal to feel like that, don’t beat yourself up about it.”

Women from the Mersey Mermaids open water swimming group take a dip in Liverpool. Val Smith, who is a club member, is part of the This Girl Can campaign
How are they going to make us believe in this?
Sport England realised that typical role models for women in sport, such as Olympic athletes Jessica Ennis or Victoria Pendleton, might not be the best way to encourage normal women because their fitness levels and physiques are seen as completely unachievable.
Instead, they took to the ground to ‘streetcast’ ordinary women to front the campaign. The seven chosen are aged between 14 and 51, and will become a new type of ambassador for women in sport as well as the faces of This Girl Can.
They feature in the advert with no airbrushing or flattering editing, and photos of them in action will be seen on billboards around the country complete with quotes that they have actually said, not ones made up by a PR company. “Sweating like a pig, feeling like a fox” and “I’m slow, but I’m lapping everyone on the couch” are two examples.
“I wanted to make the first advert that ever celebrated cellulite,” says the ad’s director, Kim Gehrig. “You never get campaigns like this. They don’t exist. Women are usually spoken to through beauty or fashion, it’s very rare that they are spoken to as human beings.”
Sports presenter Clare Balding, who has lent her support to the campaign, says she finds it “staggering” that nothing like this has ever been done before. “We are all imperfect and let’s celebrate that, it doesn’t make us less valuable,” she says. “We all have wrinkles and bags under our eyes and cellulite and pores and all those things that you don’t normally see in images of women.”
“This ad is trying to reach women who have felt for whatever reason that exercise or sport is not for them, that it’s an exclusive club they can’t join. And I think the most powerful way of doing that is to show women who look like you doing it and don’t be afraid if you wobble. It doesn’t matter. We all wobble.”
Who are the women?

Sam Mollaghan on one of her 5km runs
They are Victoria Curwell, Julie Eastwood, Sam Mollaghan, Val Smith, Skyla Merriman, Kelly Stevens and Grace Monksfield Hammond.
Paediatric nurse Victoria, 29, Skyla, 14, and student Grace, 22, are all from London, while single mother-of-three Kelly, 31, and nurse Julie, 33, are from Manchester. Val, 51, is from Liverpool and cares full time for her mother, who has Alzheimer’s, and ward clerk and mother-of-three Sam, 44, is from Bournemouth.
All seven of the women have rich personal stories about their relationships with exercise. Sam, who struggled to fit in exercise after having three children, describes herself as her biggest critic. “I thought because I wasn’t slim, I couldn’t do it,” she says. “Then one Saturday in August I just got my trainers on and went to join a 5km Parkrun. I started at the same time as my husband and son and even though they went off faster, I got round it. That was my biggest thing, just to get round it. Since then, because I knew I could do it, I’ve been going back.”
Victoria, who is seen in the ad sweating hard on a spinning bike, used to be active as a child but stopped exercising when “the embarrassment of teenage-hood” kicked in. She gained a lot of weight – “I was huge” – and couldn’t bring herself to do any sport. Her turning point came when she asked her parents for a gym membership, realising that she was more embarrassed about not doing exercise than she was about getting on with it.
A paediatric nurse who works in A&E, Victoria now does an hour-long spin class before her night shifts. “I started off thinking ‘god, they must be looking at me thinking I’m such a sweaty pig’,” she says. “But then you think ‘OK, they’re looking at me thinking she’s just done a really hard spin class and worked her socks off’.”
I like it. How do I get involved?
Visit www.thisgirlcan.co.uk for all information about the campaign and for details about different types of sport to get involved with.
Join the conversation on Twitter with the hashtag #thisgirlcan and follow the This Girl Can pages on Facebook and YouTube.
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
