Roy Hodgson says England have got their teeth back after 2-0 win over Switzerland
By Matt Law, Football News Correspondent, Basle
9:10AM BST 09 Sep 2014
Comments
Roy Hodgson claimed his England Three Lions found their teeth again by kicking off their Euro 2016 qualifying campaign with a victory over Switzerland.
Striker Danny Welbeck scored twice to secure an impressive 2-0 victory in Basle and immediately send England to the top of Group E.
England and manager Hodgson have come under fire since the dismal performance at the World Cup, but the 67-year-old now hopes this will be the start of a new era after inflicting Switzerland’s first home defeat in 10 games.
“We had the unfortunate time in Brazil, which was a kick in the teeth,” said Hodgson. “Now we can pick our teeth up, put them back in and go again.
“I thought the way we approached the game from the first minute was exactly what we wanted and we got our reward.
Hodgson finally frees the spirit of adventure
Blatter is guilty of crimes against soul of the game
Sterling is now England's most important player
Switzerland v England: as it happened
Welbeck can make a big impression in Basle
“This was always going to be a difficult game because Switzerland don’t lose at home. The last time was when England beat them.
"We missed some chances early on, but, when Danny eventually scored, it was going to open up on the counter-attack. We can do that with the youth and energy of the team, and that showed to good effect.”
Hodgson changed to a diamond formation to allow Welbeck to play through the middle, Raheem Sterling to take the No 10 position and Fabian Delph to make his first England start, playing with Jack Wilshere and Jordan Henderson in midfield.
“These are our talented players,” said Hodgson. “This is the way forward. We’ve got to back them. I’m pleased we adopted a bold approach, asked a lot of these players, but only because if it’s going to work in the future, if this group of players is to become any good, we’ve got to do it from the start. We had to go from the start as we mean to continue, and luckily we got the start which will help us.”
Delph was fortunate not to be sent off inside the first 10 minutes, when he was booked and let off another challenge, but recovered to produce a good performance.
“It’s like everything else – you can take away players’ qualities by speaking to them too much,” said Hodgson. “If you emphasise discipline too much and to be careful in tackles, you can take away elements of their game.
“It’s always the same with people like Fabian Delph, Wayne Rooney and John Stones – their first thoughts are to get up to the ball. We lacked that at the World Cup at times, putting people under pressure and making life difficult for opponents, and I was pleased with that tonight.
“We have to continue working on that. Fabian will come away with some nice remarks, but it’s one game. One cap. I want him to have lots of caps and games for Aston Villa before France comes around. I want him to be a much more competent player than he is now. I’m not saying he’s not competent now, but he can be even better in two years’ time.
“We thought about the diamond at the start of the week, but decided against Norway to start in another way. We thought this could be a good system for our players. The six players I have in front of the back four have tremendous potential: youth, energy, talent.
“They can play in different positions, wide and central. The inclusion of Delph could be regarded as a bolder move given he’s inexperienced, but that’s how he plays for his club team. Being left-footed, it eases things for him as well. I was very pleased with his performance. To come here and do as well as he did deserves a lot of credit.”
Welbeck scored his two goals in front of Arsenal chief executive Ivan Gazidis, just a week after signing for the club for £16 million on transfer deadline day.
The 23-year-old was given his chance up front because of an injury to Daniel Sturridge and grasped his big chance.
“I speak to him often and often I’ve heard him say I’ve asked him what his best position is – centre-forward, but he understands fully that position wasn’t available to him in the past in an England shirt,” said Hodgson.
“Others have got in the team before him. He’s understood the need to do the job elsewhere. He’s never complained. He’s always said he’d play where I wanted him to play, but I’ve never been left in doubt that he wanted to play centrally.”
- Switzerland 0 England 2: Henry Winter's match report - Paul Hayward: England finally summon spirit of adventure - Player ratings: Delph impresses but Cahill is man of the match - Jason Burt: Sterling is England's most important player - 29 things that have changed since the World Cup

