Switzerland 0 England 2, Euro 2016 qualifying: Danny Welbeck secures the points in campaign opener in Basle
By Henry Winter, Football Correspondent, St Jakob-Park
11:59PM BST 08 Sep 2014
Comments
Roy Hodgson has always enjoyed Switzerland; their former manager found his England tenure reinvigorated with this gutsy, pacy and deserved victory secured by Danny Welbeck’s second-half brace. Given the ease of Euro 2016 qualifying, England are almost boarding the Eurostar. Thanks to Welbeck.
Window seat or aisle?
For the fans, many dancing bare-chested by the end, the sight of England going on the front foot, playing a game of risk at times, was a reminder of why they follow England all over the world, enduring countless costs and frustrations, having also to contend with the FA’s new iniquitous “loyalty” scheme that actually punishes “loyalty’’.
As one of the most loyal number, a Wolves supporter, tweeted excitedly in the glow of victory: these are “the nights that mean the world. I’ve just shared delirium with 2,400 English in a small corner of Switzerland. Job done.’’ Thanks to Welbeck.
When Welbeck was growing up at Trinity Church of England High School in Hulme, the careers officer asked him year after year what he wanted to do when he left school. Welbeck was bright academically, gaining 12 GCSEs, yet year after year he would tell his teacher that he wanted to be “a footballer”. The teacher replied: “Not everybody makes it as a footballer, so what do you want to be?” Year after year, Welbeck politely repeated “a footballer”.
Delph impresses on debut - England player ratings
Sterling is now England's most important player
Three Lions have got their teeth back, says Hodgson
Switzerland v England: as it happened
Paul Hayward: Joy of the battle puts smile back on England faces
He was always persistent, always determined to make the grade. Even playing in two disappointing tournaments for England he stayed positive. Even being deemed surplus to requirements at his beloved Manchester United has not frustrated Welbeck; this felt almost a coming of age. He now has 10 goals in 28 internationals, and showed his capabilities by Monday night when fielded in his preferred centre-forward role.
Significantly, he will be looked at in a far more positive light by those Arsenal sceptics when he lines up against Manchester City on Saturday lunch-time. This felt a watershed for one of the game’s most popular characters.
He was selfless here, almost too selfless early on, but he grew in stature during the match, taking more responsibility in the 4-1-2-1-2 system, taking his chances in the second half, then demonstrating his versatility by going wide in a 4-3-3, all the while pushing England towards France. He often ran the channels and has helped England towards crossing a rather bigger channel.
Hodgson could have played safe when Daniel Sturridge fell lame in training on Friday. Against the ninth-ranked country in the world, Hodgson could have fielded Rooney up on his own, with Raheem Sterling off, flooded midfield and hunted only a point. But he showed his faith in Welbeck, who has scarcely played this season, although showing his hunger in United’s otherwise hapless performance at MK Dons. Welbeck did not let him down.
This was a huge night for Hodgson, stilling the rising criticism of his England regime. His tactics were vindicated. His choice of personnel paid off. Following his recent outburst, Hodgson has actually been more assertive, and spent large tracts of the game at the edge of the technical area, sharing the emotional sturm and drang with his players.
From early on, England fans were chanting their support of Hodgson and spilling over from the away corner, spreading all around the ground. One group of Crystal Palace fans even took up residency by the halfway line where their “South Croydon” banner will at least have made Hodgson feel at home.
Hodgson was indebted to strong performances from Joe Hart, who made two superb saves, from Gary Cahill, who made a marvellous sliding clearance to prevent a sure goal, while Rooney was far more effective, working hard, helping create Welbeck’s first goal with Sterling, who excelled as the tip of Hodgson’s midfield diamond.
Jack Wilshere grew into the anchoring role, although never totally convincingly and eventually being replaced by James Milner, who now has a half-century of caps. To the left, Fabian Delph made an alarming beginning to his first start, seemingly heading for an early dismissal, by bringing down Valon Behrami, remarkably escaping a booking, and then hacking at Stephan Lichtsteiner, the Swiss right-back far from the danger zone. Delph was like a bull in a china shop. Yet the Aston Villa man settled, demonstrating real discipline, and composure in his passing.
Criticised for a lack of invention in the friendly win over Norway, England were far more creative here. Rooney wasted two good chances, the first set up by Wilshere, the second by Sterling. Welbeck then raced through but his cut-back was neither accurate enough for Sterling or Rooney.
England had to see off some Swiss pressure. John Stones, making his first competitive appearance for England, dealt well with an Admir Mehmedi break. England’s other full-back, Leighton Baines, hooked clear a clever ball from Xherdan Shaqiri towards Lichtsteiner.
Stones was impressing at right-back, blocking Ricardo Rodriguez’s cross, but there were still problems in the centre. Cahill did well but Jones was erratic for a period.
After 33 minutes, he lost the ball, Shaqiri played Haris Seferovic in and only Hart’s quick anticipation, advancing and spreading himself blocked the Eintracht Frankfurt striker’s finish. Hart again reminded everyone why he is England’s No 1.
As the half closed, England so nearly scored from a corner. It began with the usual jostling melee, from which Switzerland seemed distracted by Cahill’s run. Jones was presented with a yard of space, being too quick for Johan Djourou, and meeting Rooney’s outswinging corner powerfully. Yann Sommer did brilliantly to push the ball away.
From the restart, England looked even brighter. Sterling miscued a wonderful opportunity. Behrami almost turned the ball into his own net. England then had to survive a real scare, Hart saving from Seferovic after a good build-up involving Granit Xhaka and Shaqiri.
But then England really flew through the gears after 58 minutes. Sterling pressed the Swiss into surrendering the ball before passing to Rooney. England’s captain then showed his class, showed why he deserves to start every game. He advanced confidently, picking out Sterling, whose first-time delivery was low and hard towards the far-post.
Welbeck was arriving at pace, under pressure, but still making sure he stretched out and made contact. The ball came off his shin but nobody of an English persuasion cared.
Welbeck was engulfed by players congratulating him. Hodgson punched the air. England fans sung even louder, breaking off from their vocal criticism of the FA’s new “loyalty” which rewards Wembley goers more than England’s away support.
The players rewarded them here. Cahill then came to England’s rescue, sliding in to clear after Josip Drmic had rounded Hart. Jones limped away with a hamstring problem, bringing on Phil Jagielka, who made some good clearances.
In a breathless second half, England were then denied a penalty when Delph was brought down by Djourou but the experienced Turkish referee, Cuynet Cakir, waved play on to the visitors’ bemusement.
The second soon arrived. Welbeck then raced through again and crashed his shot past Sommer. That persistence he had first shown at school had paid off again..
- Paul Hayward: England finally summon spirit of adventure - Player ratings: Delph impresses but Cahill is man of the match - Jason Burt: Sterling is England's most important player - 29 things that have changed since the World Cup

