Switzerland v England: Vladimir Petkovic says his side are now level with Roy Hodgson's new-look team
By Simon Peach, Basle
10:02PM BST 07 Sep 2014
Comments
Vladimir Petkovic, the Switzerland head coach, has said that his side are now level with England and will show no fear as they find themselves in the unusual position of going into the game at St Jakob-Park on Monday night as favourites.
The Swiss national team have enjoyed an impressive resurgence in recent years, highlighted by their narrow exit at the last-16 juncture of the World Cup in Brazil during the summer, following their defeat to the eventual finalists Argentina.
As a result Switzerland are now ninth in Fifa’s world rankings. England, after their exit at the group stage, are 20th.
“It is a bit of a shift in roles,” Petkovic, who suceeded Ottmar Hitzfeld following the World Cup, said.
“I like to be the favourite in a game, but the proof is on the pitch, on the field. There is still a lot of respect from the Swiss side towards the English. No fear but a lot of respect.”
Welbeck can make a big impression in Basle
Hodgson still a local hero in adopted homeland
Hodgson swears his new England plan will work
Rooney lined up for England left-wing role
Shaqiri centre of attention for right reasons
Henderson limps out of England training
Petkovic added: “During the past 10 years, the Swiss FA have been doing very well, have very much helped improve the team. It has been a real good, quality improvement and now we can say that we are level with the English team.”
The fact that England need to start afresh following a string of retirements has not been lost on Petkovic or his players.
Gokhan Inler knows that the absence from the England ranks of Steven Gerrard, Frank Lampard and Ashley Cole has made life tough for Roy Hodgson, himself a former Switzerland manager.
Although Switzerland boast such talents as the Bayern Munich winger Xherdan Shaqiri and the Borussia Münchengladbach midfielder Granit Xhaka, Inler will not be lulled into a false sense of security.
“Of course the players need some time to fit into the shape of the team that Roy wants,” he said.
“Apart from that, the three most important players have retired — this is one more challenge that he has to find a solution for. England remains England, a big name in football.
“We play with all the respect we have tomorrow. We mustn’t forget England have players capable of top performances, like they have had over many, many years.”
- 29 things that have changed since the World Cup - Paul Hayward: Rooney can learn from Bobby Moore's dark side - Wayne Rooney: Raheem Sterling can be the new Marc Overmars - Henry Winter: Roy Hodgson desperate to silence his critics - Scotland furious as Muller brace seals win for Germany - Michel Platini threatens retired Franck Ribery with suspension

