<<<<<<< HEAD
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/600148/s/42097476/sc/7/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Ccycling0C113268630CAlberto0EContador0Eidentifies0EChris0EFroome0Eas0ENo0E10Ethreat0Bhtml/story01.htm
=======
>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
Alberto Contador identifies Chris Froome as No 1 threat
By Tom Cary
7:45AM GMT 06 Jan 2015
Comments
Alberto Contador does not hesitate for a second when asked who he believes poses the biggest threat to his chances of securing a third Tour de France title this summer. "[Chris] Froome," the Spaniard replies, firmly. Not Vincenzo Nibali, the defending Tour champion? Or Nairo Quintana, the pint-sized Colombian climber who finished second on his debut two years ago and won the Giro d’Italia in such impressive fashion last season? He shakes his head. "No. No. Froome."
Contador’s rather abrupt responses are not merely the result of his limited, albeit impressive, command of English. Or the fact that he has a taxi waiting to whisk him off to Gran Canaria’s international airport (our interview is taking place on the final day of his Tinkoff-Saxo team’s recent two-week winter training camp). Rather, they are consistent with a view Contador has expressed repeatedly over the last season or two; that Team Sky’s Kenya-born Briton represents the benchmark by which he can judge himself in this, the second part of his career. And perhaps more importantly, the benchmark by which others can judge him.
For it is clear that Contador – a six-time grand tour winner who was stripped of two more titles following his failed drugs test at the 2010 Tour – has a keen sense of his own standing in cycling’s Hall of Fame.
Take, for instance, this explanation for his decision to target a Giro d’Italia-Tour double this year, despite the fact that his rivals all appear content to put their eggs in just the one (Tour) basket. "I know that it’s a risk because maybe [after the Giro] you cannot be at 100 per cent in the Tour," he says. "And in my opinion the Giro is more hard stages. OK, more hard race is the Tour, but more hard stages is the Giro. But this challenge motivated me... if I win the Tour again, it don’t change a lot for the people. If I win the Giro and the Tour? Yeah, it’s a big difference.
"People also remember [it] when I finish in cycling. Because not so many riders do this in the past. So for me this is a big motivation and I want to try."
Wiggins confirms Team Sky exit
Viviani shines for Telegraph All Stars
Cycling 2014 review: Tour de France helps cycling hit mainstream
Trott and Kenny in Christmas engagement
Contador’s ambition is surely to be applauded. His Giro-Tour challenge certainly has the potential to help shape the sport’s ‘narrative’ – that buzzword so beloved of cycling’s stakeholders at the moment – over the next 12 months. The shame is that others have not (yet) followed suit.
After a stop-start 2014 that saw a series of crashes deny fans the opportunity to see many of the sport’s biggest names tackle each other at their peaks, cycling is keenly aware of the need to serve up some decent, sustained plotlines this term. To do that, though, it needs its biggest names taking each other on more regularly at the biggest races.
The tricky thing is how best to encourage them to do so in an era when we all want to see good clean racing rather than the use of performance-enhancing drugs.
A few months ago, Contador’s boss, Tinkoff-Saxo’s colourful Russian owner Oleg Tinkov, half-jokingly offered to put up a prize fund of €1 million if Froome, Contador, Nibali and Quintana all agreed to enter all three grands tours. It was a suggestion that met with amusement in some quarters and downright concern in others. The worry being that, with the calendar structured the way it is, it is impossible to sustain peak form over successive three-week stage races, and therefore that to encourage the best GC riders to enter all three would merely be to encourage them to push themselves beyond their natural physical limits and towards either ill health or nefarious practices.
Various solutions have been mooted, from trimming the Giro and the Vuelta de Espana by a week apiece, to committing the riders to the same race programmes so they are all equally disadvantaged. But for the moment Contador has gone out on a limb in committing to the first two grands tours of the year.
In a sense, he is in a win-win situation. On paper, he should win the Giro comfortably. Should he then fall short at the Tour, the Madrid-born rider can always claim to be exhausted from his Giro exploits. If he succeeds, though, it would endorse the 32-year-old’s claim to be the top rider of his generation, albeit it would stick in the craw of many within the sport.
Contador is a rider that divides opinion within cycling. He has always protested his innocence over the failed drugs test in 2010, claiming the minute trace of clenbuterol discovered in a urine sample was the result of a contaminated steak which had been purchased just over the border in Spain. It was an explanation that was rejected by the Court of Arbitration for Sport and there are those for whom the Spaniard will always be a cheat.
What has never been in doubt is his ability as a rider. And after a winter which has seen him climb Mt Kilamanjaro as part of a team-bonding exercise, and which has seen Tinkoff-Saxo recruit a number of star names on the coaching and rider side, what is also not in doubt is Contador’s confidence.
The Spaniard’s smash on stage 10 of last summer’s Tour may have deprived the race of much of its drama, with Nibali going on to claim victory virtually unchallenged, but Contador believes he can take heart from the fact that he escaped with "only" a fracture of his tibia. And he adds that he is confident he would have been able to claw back the 2 min 30 sec he lost to Nibali on stage five.
"I wasn’t happy after the 2013 season," he explains. "It wasn’t the best training. Too many travels. So after I go ‘whoosh, everything new’. I need this training with this race and this race, and if I do that I know I will be in top condition. I can say one thing for sure, before the [2014] Tour de France, I was in the best condition of my life. I was more skinny than in all my life. Some people can say ‘He was 2 min 30 sec off Nibali’. Yeah but I have big confidence."
He certainly looked confident when he came back to claim a thrilling victory in last summer’s Vuelta, edging Froome into second place to add another layer of intrigue to their rivalry.
Was the Briton simply behind Contador in terms of their respective recoveries from Tour-ending injuries? Or was it an accurate reflection of where they currently stand in cycling’s pecking order?
Contador smiles. "In my opinion, Froome is maybe the biggest rival I have in my career. In my first career it was Andy Schleck and now it is Froome," he says, before dismissing the Briton’s stated concerns over this year’s Tour route, which is light on time trials and heavy on summit finishes.
"Froome is a climber. Of course he is also a strong in the time trial but he is a climber. Maybe he wanted more time trials. I remember in 2007 there was close to 120km of time trials when I won for the first time. But at the end of the day the race is the race. The route changes always. You need always to adapt."
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
