UFC 182: Daniel Cormier says Jon Jones more experienced ahead of light heavyweight title fight
By Gareth A Davies, MMA Correspondent
9:00AM GMT 31 Dec 2014
Comments
Daniel Cormier goes in to the headliner against Jon Jones on Saturday night well aware he is up against the No1 pound-for-pound fighter in the world, but reckons having his nose broken by UFC heavyweight champion Cain Velasquez, and training with the big man day-in, day-out, counts for a great deal in this fight which fans have been drooling over since their press conference ‘bust-up’.
“Look, Jon has championship experience. He's fought the best of the best and he's won. He's also young and athletic,” Cormier told Telegraph Sport. “But his championship experience is his best quality. That's the thing that sticks out more than anything else.
“Some people just think if they take care of themselves, they'll be fine, and I believe that, too. But I know Jon's strengths and weaknesses and the one thing he possesses in spades is the experience of fighting for the title eight times. He's stood across the cage at a who's who of MMA.”
The beef at the press conference, the push, shove and altercation, must be left as water under the bridge. “I don't know what it means anymore. I think people have kind of moved on. It's faded in the back. As the promotion picks up, stuff like that will remind people hopefully.”
But Cormier has not been bothered by it being brought up again in the build up to UFC 182. “They'll start to build it up again. I've had people come up to me and go: 'Oh, I remember, you guys had that deal at the MGM Grand.'
“They don't know what it was or what is was for, but they kind of remember. It's still somewhere in there. For the UFC to capitalise on what they had – lightning in a bottle, essentially – they've got to remind people why it was so big.”
And this is big. The biggest moment of Cormier’s MMA career.
Cormier, though, remains supremely confident, unbeaten in 15 fights. He has a method. “From fight one I do this thing where I talk to myself and say: 'Daniel, this guy can't beat you. He has nothing for you.' My coaches have kind of adopted that, too. They tell me: 'This guy can't beat you. Know that. Your preparation has been solid. Just go fight and have fun.'”
But he was given bad advice, once. “The worst advice I got was when they told me I'd be OK the first week I got in with [Cain] Velasquez. I got my nose broken. 'DC, you're ready,' were the words.
“I'd fought my first fight, I won, I looked reasonably comfortable, and then they said: 'DC, you're ready. Cain doesn't have to take it so easy on you.' Two-and-a-half-minutes later I had a broken nose and I was flying back to Oklahoma. Javier Mendez was responsible for that one.”
Cormier let’s out that infectious Louisiana laugh of his. He loves MMA. He was of course, an extraordinary wrestler, decorated, and the captain of the US Olympic wrestling team. “It doesn't feel like a job to me. You're getting the chance to do something competitive that most people don't get to do. You get to train for a living and hang out at the gym with your friends. You get to do so many things that most people don't get to experience.”
The layoff, however, irks him. “The most difficult thing about a layoff is what you're doing during the time that you're not competing in the cage. For me, I go in the gym all the time.
“I keep trying to get better. It's not going to be that long from May to January. I'm pretty active. I fought five or six times between the beginning of 2012 and the beginning of 2014. It's just a matter of what you're doing whenever you're not in the cage.”
To start with, he had hand issues, but it has never deterred him. “I had injuries. I kept breaking my hand. Initially, I'd break my hand every single fight and in training. I got better with my left hand when I couldn't punch with my right.”
Cormier, moreover, has developed in to a fine analyst on FOX Sports coverage of the UFC. “The analyst stuff is good because I've got to learn and watch more fights than I normally would,” he explained. “I believe I have a better understanding of fighting now.”
One thing Cormier continues to do is to speak to his former wrestling colleagues. “I rely on my idols – John Smith, Kevin Jackson, people like that. People who have won at the highest level of sport. I go to those guys and talk to them about what it's going to take to accomplish the ultimate goal.
“I never did it in wrestling. I rely on those guys that I had access to during my wrestling career. They know how to win.”
Cormier, indeed, is strong on advice himself, and tells all wannabe fighters the same. “Take advantage of every single day. Don't waste a day in the gym. For me, it was a little more urgent because I was 30. I didn't have too many days to waste.
“I tell them to take advantage of every day, even if you're not working hard, work smart. Perfect everything. You can't be just a wrestler or a grappler. You have to know how to do everything, even if it's just serviceable.”
Bottom line, Cormier wants to be champion, but he wants to be remembered as the same guy, same man, same fellow, whatever he was doing. Not a fake, he suggests, as he has accused Jones of being.
“When it's all said and done, I'd like people to look back and say, you know what, we got Daniel inside the cage, outside the cage, on TV, and we got the same guy.
“It didn't matter if we were drinking beer, hanging out, or if he was getting ready for a fight and doing press events. It was the same dude. And every time this dude went to compete, win or lose, he competed hard.
“He was always prepared and competed as hard as he could. We don't all have the elite athleticism and skill of a guy like Jon Jones, where things come easy. I want people to look back and say, this dude did the best with what he had.” And if he gives his very best on Saturday night, it might just be enough to see a new UFC light-heavyweight champion crowned, ushering in the New Year in 2015.
UFC 182 full card:
Light Heavyweight Jon Jones (c) vs. Daniel Cormier Lightweight Donald Cerrone vs. Myles Jury Middleweight Nate Marquardt vs. Brad Tavares Flyweight Kyoji Horiguchi vs. Louis Gaudinot Welterweight Hector Lombard vs. Josh Burkman Lightweight Danny Castillo vs. Paul Felder Heavyweight Shawn Jordan vs. Jared Cannonier Lightweight Evan Dunham vs. Rodrigo Damm Welterweight Omari Akhmedov vs. Mats Nilsson Bantamweight Marcus Brimage vs. Cody Garbrandt
UFC 182 is live on BT Sport

