UFC Stockholm: Gegard Mousasi believes Alex Gustafsson vs. Anthony Johnson is 50/50 fight
By Gareth A Davies, MMA Correspondent
9:00AM GMT 23 Dec 2014
Comments
Gegard Mousasi, who faces Dan Henderson at UFC Stockholm on Jan 24, believes the headline fight between Alex Gustafsson and Anthony Johnson is a 50/50 fight, as the light-heavyweights battle for the right to fight the winner from the champion Jon Jones and Daniel Cormier, who kick off the UFC's packed schedule in 2015 in Las Vegas on Jan 3.
"It's a tough for both those guys. It's a difficult fight to predict. You don't know the situation of either guy and it's all down to who shows up. I know both of them and it's a tough fight to say anything about it.," Mousasi told Telegraph Sport.
"I think Gustafsson will be seen as the favourite, but Anthony Johnson is doing great at light-heavyweight. Gustafsson is in his prime now and in the Jon Jones fight he showed what he can do.
"People have high hopes for him. He has proven himself. But Johnson is always dangerous. It's an interesting fight."
Johnson, though, says Mousasi, is also approaching his prime. "He looked good against Davis. Davis is one of the best in that division and he did so well against him. Phil Davis has a win over Gustafsson, but Johnson beat Davis.
Gustafsson hell-bent on UFC gold in 2015
UFC’s £45m tie-up with Reebok a big deal as fighters get dressed for success
Johnson out to rumble Gustafsson
Alexander Gustafsson Q and A
"It's very intriguing to see how the fight will go. It all depends on who does what they do best. I feel like neither guy falls short in any area. They can do most things."

Johnson, of course, has finally found the division which suits his body type, having flirted with heavyweight, and even, remarkably, boiling down to make 170lbs and fight at welterweight.
"He looks very massive now as a light-heavyweight, so it's difficult to imagine him ever making that weight. If I stood next to Anthony Johnson now, even I'd look small. He's a big guy. I really do think this will be a 50/50 fight."
UFC Stockholm card to date: Light Heavyweight: Alexander Gustafsson vs. Anthony Johnson (UFC light heavyweight title eliminator) Middleweight: Dan Henderson vs. Gegard Mousasi Light-Heavyweight: Phil Davis vs. Ryan Bader Welterweight: Nico Musoke vs. Albert Tumenov Welterweight: Kenny Robertson vs. Sultan Aliev Heavyweight: Viktor Pešta vs. Konstantin Erokhin Lightweight: Yan Cabral vs. Mairbek Taisumov Light-Heavyweight: Nikita Krylov vs. Stanislav Nedkov Bantamweight bout: Douglas Silva de Andrade vs. Davey Grant Featherweight bout: Mirsad Bektic vs. Alan Omer Featherweight bout: Akira Corassani vs. Sam Sicilia Featherweight bout: Andy Ogle vs. Makwan Amirkhani Flyweight bout: Neil Seery vs. Chris Beal
Tickets are on sale for UFC Fight Night: Gustafsson vs. Johnson via

