<<<<<<< HEAD
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/612405/s/41862e09/sc/1/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Cufc0C112818320CDan0EHardy0EUFC0Efighter0EDiego0ESanchezs0Estyle0Eis0Eembarrassing0Eand0Edangerous0Efor0Ehim0Bhtml/story01.htm
=======
>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
Dan Hardy: UFC fighter Diego Sanchez's style is 'embarrassing and dangerous for him'
By Gareth A Davies, MMA Correspondent
10:30AM GMT 17 Dec 2014
Comments
UFC colour commentator Dan Hardy has long defended the sport of MMA and believes it is wrongly perceived. But the former fighter also believes the sport could police itself in tighter ways.
"This is something that has really been paramount in my thoughts since I started working as an ambassador for the UFC. We're not recognised or accepted as a legitimate sport in New York and France," Hardy explained to Telegraph Sport.
"Nobody in the world can tell me I'm not a professional athlete. I have dedicated my heart and soul to sport for many years. Liberal Victoria is the political party in Australia that has been fighting against 'cage-fighting'.
"Every time they try to campaign and keep cage-fighting out of Melbourne, they'll use a photograph of Diego Sanchez where he's all bloodied up. Or they'll use a picture of Joe Stevenson against BJ Penn," reasoned Hardy.
"Diego is giving these people an opportunity to hate the sport. He is the example that they're using. I don't think I'd want my kids to watch Diego Sanchez. He shows heart, but the reason he shows heart is because he doesn't show any intelligence in his fighting style," not being critical of Sanchez, but seeing the fighter as those outside the sport might see him.
10 things we learnt at the TUF 20 Finale
TUF 20 Finale gallery from Las Vegas
Mousasi: Gustafsson-Johnson is 50/50 fight
UFC 20 Finale weigh-in sparks controversy
"All he's got left is heart. You wouldn't get a world-class footballer playing like that or a any kind of world-class athlete. You wouldn't get a world-class boxer fighting like that. Even the guys that took a lot of hits and had a brawling style, they were still focused on defensive work.
"They just tended to get drawn in to a battle. Diego starts the fight by running forward face first. It's not an evolved mixed martial artist's approach to fighting. Not only do we have a responsibility to entertain, but we also have a responsibility to represent the sport as a professionals.
"I think that his fighting style is old hat and it's kind of embarrassing for the sport. It's also embarrassing for him and dangerous for him. I think we need to be doing away with this hard-headed, let's-see-how-many-shots-I-can-take-before-I-fall-over kind of fighting style," explained Hardy, who fought for the UFC welterweight title against Georges St. Pierre in March 2010, in New Jersey.
"I want to see martial arts. I want to see a martial artist go in there and effectively deal with their opponent as quickly and as efficiency as possible without taking loads of damage and without them being a bloody mess. We're going to have those fights, of course.
Follow Telegraph Sport on Facebook for all the latest UFC news and updates.
"There will be fights where you have to stand toe to toe because that's what it's come down to. But that shouldn't be Plan A, not for anybody. That's Plan C, Plan D or Plan E. When all of the other technical approaches have gone out the window and all you've got left is grit.

"That's when I like to see those fights. That's when I like to see guys digging deep. They've tried all the other avenues to win the fight. I don't like this idea that you step in there and just start throwing punches and caution to the wind. That's setting a bad example for our sport." Fascinating insight.
"Being popular creates opportunities. Conor McGregor is probably the best example of that right now. If you're popular, you get the opportunities," added Hardy who has grown into his role in the last year, but still hankers after getting back in to fight mode. He was sidelined after a rare heart condition.
"I am very content. I love this job, I love being a part of the sport and to be able to go to so many fight weeks and be in that environment with the fighters who are all in peak condition and cutting weight with their head on the fight.
"I like being able to feed off that energy, I really enjoy it. And breaking down fights comes very naturally to me. I've been doing it all my life without really knowing what I was doing. It wasn't until I got to the UFC and was able to review a lot of tape on people that I started really getting a grasp of how to do it and how to pick somebody apart.
"But all through my career I've done it from the perspective that I'd have to fight this guy or that guy. How do I beat him? Now I can look at it entirely objectively and it's a beautiful sport."
But the fight? "Because I'm content that's part of the reason why I want to fight again. I don't like my comfort zone very much. I get bored in my comfort zone. And having watched so many fights the past couple of years, and having learned so much from it, I'm frustrated that I never showed my best in the UFC.
"I'm frustrated that I never really got to show what I was capable of. I feel like if I can get two or three more fights I'll be able to do that. The sole drive of wanting to fight is purely for the competition. I'm not interested in the money or the recognition or the belts or the rankings. I just want to fight.
"I just want to show what I've been learning since I started martial arts when I was six. I want to show that I can do it as well as I know I can and prove that to everybody else. I never felt like I gave my best in the Octagon. I never really felt like I gave a good account of myself. That is my driving force now – to fight again. I'd very much like to fight and I'd like two or three more. Then I'll be done.
"What makes it most frustrating is that it was kind of taken away from me mid training camp. I never got that closure," he explained.
"I like welterweight. I think it's a great weight class. I'd even fight at a catchweight of about 160lbs. I feel more comfortable at this weight. I'm walking around at about 82 kilos. I'm really not far off welterweight and I could fight at welterweight. I don't feel like I'm going to be outmuscled by anybody.
"I'm not going to be beaten on reach by many people. At lightweight I'd be able to focus on being lean. At the moment I'd feel like I'd still need to gain a little bit of muscle – I'm carrying too much fat at the moment. A lighter weight class would suit me better and suit my fighting style better. Plus, there are a lot of good matchups around those weight divisions."
Hardy likes the look of a few of the fan-pleasers in the lightweight division. "The guys floating around the top ten like Cowboy and Eddie Alvarez, they're exciting fighters to watch and would be good tests for me."
"I've spoken about Diego Sanchez a few times as well. But I just don't want to see him get hit in the face anymore. He doesn't seem to care about it and it doesn't make the sport look good – it looks like a bloody mess at the end of his fights because he fights face first."
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
