UFC: The Ultimate Fighter 20 Finale pre-fight weigh-in at Las Vegas sparks controversy
By Gareth A Davies, MMA Correspondent, Las Vegas
8:30PM GMT 12 Dec 2014
Comments
The Ultimate Fighter 20 Finale weigh-ins did not go off without controversy on Thursday. Two fighters missed weight.
Co-main-event fighter Charles Oliveira weighed in at 147 pounds, one pound over the 146-pound limit for the fight. He was given one hour to make weight.
The bespectacled Oliveira eventually made it down to 146.5 pounds. Although he didn’t make weight, the fight will go on, and he will forfeit 10-percent of his fight purse.
Equally, Ireland's Aisling Daly – accompanied by cornerman Paddy Holohan, the UFC flyweight – was two pounds over the 116-pound limit for her fight with Alex Chambers.
Daly was also given one hour to make weight, but did not weigh in again. She instead forfeited 20 per cent of her fight purse and still remain in the fight with Chambers.
'Would Reebok make me a kilt for UFC Scotland?'
Daly prepared for TUF 20 finale in Las Vegas
Scotland's JoJo Calderwood did make weight, however, and faces Korean Seo Hee Ham in what should provide an entertaining striking battle.
Joanne Calderwood and Seo Hee Ham (GETTY IMAGES)
The TUF 20 Finale finalists Carla Esparza and Rose Namajunas had a tense face-off, and the winner will be crowned as the inaugural UFC women's strawweight champion.
TUF 20 finale, The Palms Las Vegas, full card:
Main Card Women's Strawweight: Carla Esparza vs. Rose Namajunas (Women's strawweight title) Catchweight (146.5lbs): Jeremy Stephens vs. Charles Oliveira Lightweight: K.J. Noons vs. Daron Cruickshank Lightweight: Joe Proctor vs. Yancy Medeiros Women's Strawweight: Jessica Penne vs. Randa Markos
Preliminary card Women's Strawweight: Felice Herrig vs. Lisa Ellis Women's Strawweight: Bec Rawlings vs. Heather Jo Clark Women's Strawweight: Joanne Calderwood vs. Seo Hee Ham Women's Strawweight: Tecia Torres vs. Angela Magana
Preliminary card (UFC Fight Pass) Women's Catchweight (118lbs): Aisling Daly vs. Alex Chambers Women's Strawweight: Emily Kagan vs. Angela Hill
Gareth A Davies will be blogging live from the event at The Pearl at The Palms from 10pm –

