Why this is the closest Volvo Ocean Race in history
By Kate Laven
9:00AM BST 29 Jun 2012
Telefonica, who were miles ahead of the rest of the fleet in terms of their preparations when the fleet arrived at the Alicante start line in November, were run away winners of that opening leg to Cape Town.
They won the next two legs too but as the other crews got to know their boats better, the competition intensified. Telefonica were knocked off their perch, in a levelling of the playing field that effectively started in the fourth leg from Sanya to Auckland.
Since then, Groupama have dominated both inshore and offshore, scooping 84 per cent (146 of the 174) of maximum points up for grabs.

They have the momentum with just two inshore races and one short leg from Lorient to Galway to go. However PUMA, Camper and Telefonica have all thrown down the gauntlet vowing to make life intolerably uncomfortable in the race’s dying hours.
Ocean Race set for overhaul
Should there be mixed crews?
Edwards calls for changes
It's a young man's game
Sanya's award tainted by fellow sailors
Medical team to assess mounting injuries
So when the sailing boots have been hung up and the chafing sores healed, this race will be remembered primarily for the nail biting contests between four main adversaries.

- Remember Camper’s tussle with Telefonica as they headed towards the Maldives at end of the opening section of Leg 2. TWO MINUTES separated them.
- It was the same two teams who had us spellbound in the fight for third place at the end of Leg 4 into Auckland: 93 SECONDS apart after more than 5,000 miles – or 20 days - of racing.

- And considering what a torrid time the fleet had of it in the Southern Ocean, the 13-MINUTE gap between PUMA and Telefonica to determine the winner of Leg 5 into Itajaii, after 6,500 miles or close on 20 days of full on bumpy racing, was remarkable.
- And most recently, the gloves came off both Groupama and Abu Dhabi Ocean Racing in the run in to Lisbon, after a tricky transatlantic crossing with SIX MINUTES the difference between first and second on Leg 7.

The 2011-2012 Race has been the closest ever but the Volvo Ocean Race, and the Whitbread Round the World race before it, has over the years produced competitions ranging from tight to bare knuckled and blood thirsty.
In the second Whitbread Race in 1977-78, the battle of the 65 footers King’s Legend and Conny Van Rietschoten’s Flyer took centre stage on the massive second leg from Cape Town to Auckland through the wild and icy latitudes of the Southern Ocean.
There were a stream of breakages as Flyer took miles out of Kings Legend in the final 200 miles into Auckland but the Legend crossed the line first, just one hour and 15 minutes ahead.
The battle between Sir Peter Blake (below) and Grant Dalton in 1987-88, the fifth Whitbread, was another humdinger as their maxi ketches Steinlager 2 and Fisher & Paykel were pitted against each other around the world for the King of the Kiwis tag. Blake won hands down but Leg 4 from Auckland to Punta del Este saw a tiny 21 minute defeat for the mighty Dalton and his crew.

In 2005-06, the smallest margin of victory ever recorded in the history of the race was NINE seconds, separating Movistar and Mike Sanderson’s ABN AMRO ONE in the leg across the Tasman from Melbourne to Wellington.
But no contest has been so close for so long as the current edition and with just a few days remaining, it is quite possible we will see the teams deploy elaborate tactics, more commonly associated with Olympic class racing, to cover Groupama in a bid to run her down to the back of the fleet.
The other teams need to restrict Franck Cammas’ scoring but there would be a big risk element attached to such tactics including penalties or even worse, accusations of unsportsmanlike behaviour.
If it goes down to the wire in the final in port race in Galway, Volvo’s template for creating the perfect competition might become priceless overnight.
But no one will contest the result. Whoever wins will have thoroughly deserved this title.
Follow Telegraph Sport's unrivalled coverage of Volvo Race.

