http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/robert-schlesinger/2014/06/10/eric-cantor-loses-his-primary-and-the-spin-games-begin
Eric Cantor Loses His Primary and the Spin Games Begin - US News
The operative mood inside the beltway this evening can be summed up with three letters that stand for a phrase that’s not printable in a family publication: WTF? Eric Cantor, the sitting majority leader of the U.S. House, lost his primary this evening in an upset of – choose your superlative – stupendous, historic, unprecedented, seismic, unbelievable proportions.
But even as Cantor’s political corpse cools, the fight to diagnose his cause of death is only heating up and could well have a deep effect on politics for years to come.
First the shock. The Washington Post’s Jaime Fuller rounded up the cascading reaction as it unfolded on Twitter, from the “holy crap” tweets (nearly a score of them) to the gloating to the jokes. (“Rains of Castamere now playing at Eric Cantor campaign HQ,” @pourmecoffee tweeted.) Hot Air’s open thread also pretty entertainingly captures the real time flavor.
“Is this a joke?” one lobbyist asked me when the news first broke – maybe an early exit poll had gone viral or something? Adding, “I don’t know what it means. Is this an anecdotal thing? Does this mean the tea party’s back? I don’t know.”
[GALLERY: Cartoons on the tea party]
The honest truth is that no one does. Arguably the most stunning upset in congressional history is just hours old and unless someone had the remarkable foresight to run detailed exit polls on a race no one ( except U.S. News' Peter Roff) was paying attention to, there’s a knowledge vacuum which is already filling up with fairly predictable spin. Why? Because when the number two guy in the House gets blindsided, the other 400 or so sitting members who want to keep their seats sit up and try to figure out: There but for the grace of what exactly go I? What answer conventional wisdom gels around will tell a lot about the near- and medium-term future of the GOP.
One big interpretive fault line here will be over immigration. David Brat, the college professor who vanquished Cantor, ran hard against him as an amnesty proponent, “a stretch even in the bounds of political rhetoric,” ABC’s Rick Klein notes, likely leaving immigration reform dead (again). The pro-immigration reform group America’s Voice immediately issued a statement arguing that Cantor “was no friend of immigration reform.” (Was? He’s still alive, guys.) Of course South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham, who has a much more clearly problematic immigration record in the very conservative Palmetto State, easily won his primary, so it's not like there's an anti-immigration tide in evidence here. For what it’s worth, RedState’s Erick Erickson dismisses the immigration analysis as incorrect, if useful for his side; Cantor, Erickson argues, lost because he was a poor congressman who was disliked by both the insurgent right and the establishment.
There may be something to that. For all of the interpretation about the tea party and immigration reform, Occam’s razor may apply. And the simplest explanation is the one a GOP strategist offers: “It's the age old lesson in politics, if you don't go home it catches up with you. So yes I am shocked but when you look under the hood there was a lot of rust.” As the old political maxim goes: Run scared or don’t run.
[CHECK OUT: Political cartoons about the GOP.]
The broader question people will be arguing about is whether this is the tea party resurgent. The first press release that landed in my inbox on the subject was a statement from Democratic National Committee Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz: “Tonight’s result in Virginia settles the debate once and for all – the tea party has taken control of the Republican Party. Period.” In another statement, the Tea Party Patriots’ Jenny Beth Martin offered to save pundits the “time and trouble” of analyzing the results. “Dave Brat won tonight in Virginia because he effectively harnessed the outrage at Washington,” she said. So to sum up: the tea party and the DNC are singing from the same analytical songbook.
Or was this an updated version of Rush Limbaugh’s old Operation Chaos, with Democrats causing mischief in the GOP primary (possibly, as Roff argued Monday, as a response to Virginia state Sen. Phillip Puckett, a Democrat, resigning and throwing control of the chamber to the GOP allegedly in exchange for a plum job)? Hot Air’s Allahpundit notes that if the Democrats could pull that off, they would have run a serious general election candidate (as it happens, their nominee teaches at the same college as Brat – go figure) and cites the reliably smart analyst David Wasserman with figures undermining the thesis. But Andrew Sullivan heard from at least one Operation Chaos reader. The point is that if a freak tide of Democrats is to blame, then a resurgent tea party movement may not be.
Ultimately the New York Times’ John Cassidy tweeted the best near-term analytical advice regarding Cantor’s loss:
Here's an idea. Since nobody predicted the Cantor loss, maybe we should be a bit modest about predicting its consequences.
— John Cassidy (@TNYJohnCassidy) June 11, 2014

