http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/robert-schlesinger/2014/04/08/judge-hillary-clinton-and-jeb-bush-on-their-merits-not-as-dynasties
Judge Hillary Clinton and Jeb Bush on Their Merits, Not as Dynasties - US News
Nicole Hemmer has a typically thoughtful post up on the Jeb Bush presidential boomlet, putting the immigration debate into historical context and teasing out the philosophical implications of Bush’s comments on the matter. It’s a smart piece and worth a read in full. But I have to quibble with one comment she makes. She writes:
She’s absolutely right in a sense: America isn’t an aristocracy, and for that reason neither Jeb Bush’s nor Hillary Clinton’s pedigrees give them special claims to the Oval Office. But by the same token neither should their last names raise special barriers for them.
[Check out our editorial cartoons on President Obama.]
On one level, I too find the idea of Hillary Clinton versus Jeb Bush (or, for that matter, either one alone as standard-bearer) to be depressing and unappealing for the same reasons many people do – that two families could provide at least one presidential nominee in five of seven elections bodes ill for the political system and the talent pool in public life.
But the critical dynastic question is not whether families with traditions of public service are winning, but whether those traditions carry an unqualified or undeserving candidate to the presidency. So ask yourself: Would Hillary Rodham – a well-respected, twice-elected senator from New York who earned a reputation as a hard worker with an ability to work across the aisle before she resigned to serve a term as secretary of state – be a credible presidential candidate? What about John Ellis, a popular former two-term governor of a large state whose proven track record of appealing to Hispanics could help rescue his party from demographic self-immolation? (It’s worth noting that, if anything, Jeb Bush’s last name is probably a net drag on his chances of becoming president.)
If it comes to it, each should be judged on their own merits. If he or she is the best their party has to offer – not a slam dunk for a woman already dubbed the most unbeatable frontrunner since … herself eight years ago and a man who hasn’t stood for office in a dozen years – then so be it. There will be plenty of reasons to support or oppose making one of them the 45th president that having nothing at all to do with 41st, 42nd and 43rd.
