http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2015/02/13/why-april-will-trigger-2016-presidential-campaign-announcements
Why April Will Trigger Campaign Announcements
With the exception of exploratory committees set up by former Sen. Jim Webb, D-Va, and Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., formal 2016 presidential campaign announcements have been few and far between.
That hasn't stopped a proliferation of pre-candidacy political action committees, of course.
But those aren't formal campaign committees with the express intent of gauging a White House run.
Look for that to change in April.
Former Federal Election Commissioner Michael Toner says he foresees five to 10 2016 presidential campaign committees being created in April, in order for candidates to take advantage of a full fundraising quarter.
[READ: Will the Billionaires Win 2016?]
"That's going to be a popular lane. I bet some heavy hitters file in early April. It's soon enough to do the spadework by the summer to be in the best position," he tells U.S. News. "It will create a ripple effect."
In politics, fundraising timespans are divvied up like quarters in football – there are four of them every year, each covering three months. The second quarter begins April 1 and runs through June 30. So, for instance, if a candidate was to wait until June 1 to announce, he or she would only have 30 days to raise money before having to report the totals to the FEC. That risks producing a smaller number, which will be thoroughly scrutinized by political pundits and the media for immediate signs of weakness. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​
And that's why it's no coincidence Hillary Clinton is eyeing April as a point to pull the trigger.
[ALSO: The Best 8 Days in American Politics]
It's not only fundraising that's of priority, notes Toner. Serious contenders can only delay constructing a campaign infrastructure for so long. If a Republican plans to compete in Iowa's August straw poll, volunteers must be enlisted. Many states also require thousands of signatures to qualify for the primary ballot. (In 2012, both Newt Gingrich and Rick Perry were kept off the ballot in Virginia because they failed to corral the necessary signatures in time.)
"The ballot access issue is a nightmare, and you have to be on top of it for the summer and fall. You can't push that off indefinitely," Toner says.
If he's right, April will shower down candidates as much as it will raindrops.
