http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2015/01/29/lindsey-graham-tests-presidential-waters
Lindsey Graham Tests Presidential Waters
Seeing a void among his party's top 2016 contenders on national security issues, Sen. Lindsey Graham launched an organization on Thursday to test the waters of a presidential campaign.
The three-term Republican senator from South Carolina, who is a vocal advocate for a muscular U.S. foreign policy and a fervent ally of Israel, established a political committee that is registered through the Internal Revenue Service to raise unlimited funds, allowing him to travel the country and gauge support for a White House bid.
But Graham’s website indicates he will self-impose contribution limits to $2,600 a person and $5,200 a couple – amounts that mirror federal campaign contribution limits.
The 527-tax exempt organization is called Security Through Strength and will operate much like the committee established by Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker earlier this week.
[READ: Bush, Christie, Walker Look to Jump-Start Possible Campaigns]
Implicit in the committee's name is Graham's focus, which will be driven by the existential threat of radical Islamic terrorism, a danger he believes he is uniquely situated to confront.
With an emerging Republican field of governors and a trio of freshman senators, Graham doesn't see another candidate with his depth and breadth of experience on the global stage, though in August he did refer to Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., as the "son of Ronald Reagan when it comes to national security."
In a statement, Graham attached himself to former President Ronald Reagan's mantle.
"Ronald Reagan’s policy of ‘Peace Through Strength’ kept America safe during the Cold War. But we will never enjoy peaceful coexistence with radical Islam because its followers are committed to destroying us and our way of life. However, America can have ‘Security Through Strength,’ and I will continue to lead in that critical fight.”
Graham also just happens to hail from the first Southern nominating state, which could complicate the paths of other GOP candidates if he ends up formally pursuing the race and stays in through his home-state primary.
But some outside observers believe Graham's potential bid is more about pushing the Republican field away from the anti-interventionist strain that has penetrated parts of the party, than it is about ultimately capturing the nomination.
