http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2015/01/22/the-first-phase-of-the-gop-primary-has-begun
The First Phase Of The GOP Primary Has Begun - US News
On June 12, 1999, in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, Republican George W. Bush announced his candidacy for the presidency.
A mere four months — and a Bush pledge to raise $100 million — later, major rivals like former Vice President Dan Quayle, former Tennessee Gov. Lamar Alexander and former Secretary of Labor Elizabeth Dole had bowed out.
Most formal declarations of 2016 presidential candidacies are still months away, but the maneuvering that is taking place over the next several days exposes the first crucial phase of the Republican primary.
As would-be contenders reach out to donors, hire staff and test their messages in early nominating states, they are inevitably inching closer to a final decision about whether to ultimately vie for the chance to carry their party’s banner.
“This is the natural rhythm of the election cycle,” says former Utah Gov. Mike Leavitt. “There’s a long way between ‘I’m interested’ and ‘I’m going to do it.’”
Nowhere was that tension more acute than in Utah on Thursday, where former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush flew to meet with 2012 GOP standard-bearer Mitt Romney.
[ALSO: Jeb Bush's Big Moves Hint at 2016 Run]
The private meeting was scheduled before Romney told an assemblage of donors in New York City earlier this month he was interested in a third shot at the White House. But it still raised the prospect that the pair of former governors would delicately address the 2016 campaign-in-waiting and how candidacies by each of them could divide the heart of the party. Could it amount to Bush's first subtle attempt to nudge Romney back off the playing field?
Ari Fleischer, George W. Bush's former White House press secretary, doubts that two high-level principals would address the elephant in the room with any precision.
"If the two are running, they'll say, 'We'll run a clean campaign, we won't get personal, we'll elevate the issues,'" says Fleischer.
Rarely do politicians themselves directly engage in the more sensitive conversations, laying out their opponent's weaknesses or their own superior viability.
"They're mini-diplomats. They leave it to their campaign managers and strategists to deliver those kind of messages. They're going to talk around each other," Fleischer says.
[ALSO: What Mitt's Missing for 2016]
Republicans with ties to both men were eager to tamp down intrigue surrounding the meeting between two of the most important members of their party.
“I don’t think either one of them will be revealing anything new,” says Leavitt, an adviser to Romney in 2012. “I think this is mostly about maintaining a friendship over what could be an awkward time.”
Asked if he would sign on to a potential Romney bid in 2016, Leavitt deflected by saying, “Mitt hasn’t made a decision.”
As Bush and Romney feel each other out, as many as 10 of their potential rivals will convene Saturday in Des Moines, Iowa, for an all-day speaking summit organized by Rep. Steve King, R-Iowa.
Neurosurgeon Ben Carson; Rep. Marsha Blackburn, R-Tenn.; Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker; former Sen. Rick Santorum; former United Nations Ambassador John Bolton; Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas; former Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina; former Texas Gov. Rick Perry; New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie and former Gov. Mike Huckabee are all slated to speak to a gathering of Iowa conservatives. With differing levels of seriousness, each has flirted with a run for the presidency.
Bush and Romney were granted invites to the “Iowa Freedom Summit.” Bush declined his due to a scheduling conflict, according to Citizens United spokesman Bryan Lanza. But a Bush aide tells U.S. News that after a Friday speech in San Francisco to an auto dealers convention, the former governor is set to fly back to Florida for the weekend. Romney had not responded to organizers as of Wednesday and isn’t expected to attend either.
For now, rather than hit the trail, the two have conducted most of their political activity in private backchannels and inside informal meetings behind closed doors.
[MORE: Rand Paul and Ted Cruz Lead 2016 Travel]
Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., is taking a similar tack as he mulls a difficult 2016 decision.
Rubio is convening his top aides and donors at a beachside hotel in Miami this weekend to update them on his train of thought regarding the future. It’s unlikely that the freshman senator emerges from the meeting with a public declaration, but one supporter tells U.S. News the gathering “should inform his decision.”
Rubio must decide on whether to pursue a second full term in the U.S. Senate or give up his perch in the world’s greatest deliberative body for a shot at the presidency. Signs that Bush is increasingly likely to dive into the contest will certainly weigh on Rubio, given that they both hail from the politically potent state of Florida and share many of the same supporters.
Rubio, like Bush, Romney and many others have declared varying degrees of interest in the race ahead. They’ve put off their final decisions to the spring. But the decision-making churns into a higher gear now.
Around the time she resigned her post at the Red Cross in 1999, George W. Bush asked for a private meeting with Dole. Whatever was said didn't deter Dole. She plowed ahead and entered the race but was vanquished less than a year later. Ambition and personal pride can often overpower pragmatism and political unity.
"Canceling would have made it looked worse," says Fleischer on the new dynamic surrounding Bush's meeting with Romney. "Jeb's going to have flown a long way for an inconclusive meeting."
