http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2015/01/13/rand-paul-no-answer-to-long-war-in-middle-east
Rand: Long Middle East War "Insolvable"
Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul is keenly sensitive to the claim that he embodies an isolationism that would pare back U.S. involvement around the world.
But during a speech at the Heritage Foundation's Conservative Policy Summit on Tuesday morning, the Republican presidential aspirant made clear he would more often than not decline to send U.S. troops into enduring conflicts in the Middle East.
That's because, "the long war" as he dubs it -- between Sunnis and Shiites and barbaric religious extremists and mainstream Islam -- is "insolvable."
Two specific phrases jumped out from Paul's answer to a question about foreign policy:

[READ: What Pissed Off the Tea Party in 2014]
Paul made clear that the U.S. had the right and obligation to defend itself and its interests, such as its diplomatic ventures in the region, as well as its embassies and consulates. This was a prime opportunity to again pin direct blame on former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton for the 2012 security failure at the consulate in Benghazi, Libya, that cost the lives of four American diplomats. "I think she did a terrible job. It's inexcusable," he said.
The "insolvable" characterization, in addition to saying there isn't an answer to the combustible Middle East, will inevitably be used against Paul by his more hawkish rivals in a hypothetical GOP primary race. They will claim that to throw America's hands up in the air in exasperation is not an option, that detachment is an admission of defeat.
But Paul left himself some wiggle room when he noted he believed the U.S. should still defend itself and its security interests. The coming debate will center all around what exactly constitutes that vital U.S. interest.
[ALSO: Paul Ryan Not Running for President in 2016]
Paul is vehemently opposed to most of the regional skirmishes of the past decade, from President George W. Bush's war in Iraq to President Barack Obama's intervention in Libya.
"Every time we've gotten involved to topple a secular dictator, it's been replaced with chaos and the rise of radical Islam. That would be in Hillary's war in Libya, this would also be in the Republican war in Iraq. I think what's over there now is less stable than before."
But Paul's philosophy has been most severely put to the test by the rise of the Islamic State, a decentralized, loosely organized band of terrorists striking fear across the globe.
Last summer, Paul was reluctant to intervene. But their violence grew boundless and shocked Americans on a visceral level. By December, he had drafted a declaration of war.
Even though military experts had warned the fight against the Islamic State would be protracted, Paul decided this was a "long war" that required U.S. action, even though there may not be a sure-fire remedy.
