http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/washington-whispers/2015/01/29/last-call-keystone-xl-and-a-graham-mccain-bromance
Last Call: Keystone XL and a Graham-McCain Bromance - US News
Check: With nine Democrats on board, the Republican-majority Senate approved the Keystone XL pipeline extension, setting up a direct challenge to President Barack Obama, who’s strongly implied he’d veto such a bill if it reached his desk. The House already approved a similar bill earlier this month, and it's a safe bet Obama will follow through – he and his press secretaries are on record saying so, and he’s been on a protect-the-environment roll lately. But in Washington, there’s no such thing as a sure thing.
Mates?: Sen. Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican and influential member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, gave some tacit love to attorney general nominee Loretta Lynn today: He suggested she wouldn’t be a half-bad choice to succeed that scoundrel, Attorney General Eric Holder, especially after she promised to repair relations with Congress. GOP Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah also is possibly OK with confirming her. But word on the right is Lynch supports abortion; cue the conservative Twitter outrage in 3 … 2 … 1:
Lindsey Graham: Advocating Partial-Birth Abortion Doesn’t Disqualify Lynch as AG | CNS News http://t.co/mgXYSROcxE
Hey, Lindsey Graham, how can you be 'inclined to support' Loretta Lynch after THIS? http://t.co/Kj5NqB5u81

Frank Underwood, Call Your Office: Graham today announced he’d formed a committee to test the waters for – you guessed it – a presidential run. Graham’s looking to fill what he sees as a void: Republican contenders with solid foreign policy chops:
While it’s easy to discount Graham’s decision to leap into the GOP’s Presidential Contender Family-Size Super Val-U-Pak, there’s at least some evidence that the bachelor legislator and reservist from a small Southern state might be on to something. A Pew survey shows that concern about national security is rising up the charts, competing with the U.S. economy as a reason for national anxiety. And Obama hasn’t won many fans with his, shall we say, nuanced strategy of dealing with Islamic State group, what with all the fighting, killing and beheading going on in Syria and Iraq.
Did we mention South Carolina’s an early primary state? But there’s no word yet on whether Graham will follow his Netflix doppelganger’s lead and kill his way to the Oval Office.
“Does He Need a Veep? ‘Cause I’ll Totally Do It!”: Graham’s announcement put a jolt in the long-term bromance between him and Sen. John McCain, who could barely contain himself at the news: "He's a dark horse – keep an eye on him!" the Arizona Republican said, according to Bloomberg Politics’ Dave Weigel. "In debates, he'll shred 'em. Have you see ever seen Sen. Graham in a debate, on the floor of the Senate? He will do wonderful. I don't want to raise expectations, but I'm confident … He has my all-out complete support. That's not just friendship. It's got to do with national security and what I believe are grave threats to this nation."
Drawn Conclusion:
