http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/washington-whispers/2015/01/23/three-minute-briefing-in-gops-invisible-primary-mitt-casts-a-light-shadow
Three Minute Briefing: In GOP's 'Invisible Primary,' Mitt Casts a Light Shadow
Happy TGIF, the 23rd day of the year and the first weekend of the 2016 presidential campaign, at least on the Republican side, with two important see-and-be-seen events on the GOP primary calendar in two different climates — balmy Palm Springs, California, playground of the wealthy, and frigid, corn-belt Iowa. It’s also the day before President Barack Obama makes a rare state visit to India to help it celebrate its Independence Day, which includes a crowded, open-air event that’s giving big headaches to an already-beleaguered Secret Service. It might be an easier visit if the president had chosen invisibility when a YouTube interviewer, at the end of a strange Q-and-A session asked him which superhero power he’d choose for himself — more on that in a minute. Here’s your Three Minute Briefing, all the News You Can Use in 180 seconds or the next one’s free:
Keep it Moving, Bibi: After the Republican-led Congress invited Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for a visit and a speech — without consulting the White House, as protocol dictates — the White House says they won’t meet with Netanyahu while he’s in Washington. The administration says it doesn’t want to be seen as interfering in upcoming Israeli elections, but it’s the latest sign of increasingly poor relations with Netanyahu, who opposes Obama’s negotiations with Iran to keep it from getting a nuclear weapon.
[READ: Nancy Pelosi Says Boehner's Invitation to Netanyahu Is Inappropriate]
Biden Bears Condolences: Vice President Joe Biden will head to Saudi Arabia in the next few days, bearing American condolences for the death of King Abdullah, a staunch U.S. ally who died at age 90 on Thursday.
Pass the Bible, Then the Suntan Oil: Nobody’s officially running for the Republican presidential nomination yet, but they are scrambling, especially this weekend. The GOP pack of contenders, and a few wanna-bees, will be on the move this weekend to high-profile conservative events: Rep. Steve King of Iowa’s annual Freedom Summit and the billionaire Koch brothers’ yearly winter retreat in Palm Springs (the place to see and be seen by deep-pocketed donors), among others and Jeb Bush will speak to a convention of auto dealers in San Francisco. Oh, the irony.
Rand Paul, Meet Howard Dean: The New York Times Upshot blog took a scientific look at the unsettled Republican presidential field and realized we’ve kind of been here before: each of the GOP contenders they’ve identified has characteristics, and a place on their party’s ideological spectrum, that match up with a previous presidential candidate from seasons past. They also recommend Bush, but pass on the undercoat and get the extended warrantee.
No Losers Allowed: Notably absent from the Palm Springs guest list is Mitt Romney, who is to Republican presidential politics what the Buffalo Bills are to the Super Bowl. Mother Jones reports that the 2012 runner-up wasn’t that tight with the Kochs last time even though he got their support, and they blame him for losing to the black guy. Now that Romney’s back on the scene, the Kochs don’t want him to screw things up this time around.
This Can’t be Good: More signs of trouble for Romney: The Center for Public Integrity, which tracks campaign financing, reports that many of the same big-money donors who backed Romney in 2012 are staying on the sidelines so far this time around. Like a frat boy in the beer aisle on a Friday, they’re attempting to choose from an increasing number of options — Mike Pence? Lindsey Graham? Seriously? — and attempting to decide which candidate delivers the biggest bang for the buck.
Meeting of the Minds: Romney and Jeb Bush had their sit-down in Utah on Thursday, and both sides were pretty much mum. But despite a “gentlemanly” conversation, according to Romney’s people, in which they discussed “the future” (per Bush), coming out of the meeting all the signs are neither is dropping out of the presidential race, and they’ll remain on a collision course, may the best man prevail.
[ALSO: The First Phase Of The GOP Primary Has Begun]
They’re Not Smothered in a Tangy Sauce: Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid is back at work after a serious workout accident late last year, in which he broke several ribs and bashed his face, damaging his left eye. But at a press conference Thursday, Reid, 75 and a former Golden Gloves boxer, said surgery will save his vision, he plans to run again in 2016 and his broken ribs are “meaningless.”
Not Exactly Meet The Press: They didn’t get much love from the White House press room regulars, who complain a lot about the limited access to the president. But the YouTube stars who interviewed Obama on camera yesterday did a decent, kind of weird job, pressing the president — if lightly — on heavy issues like drone strikes, Boko Haram, Black Lives Matter and why young people don’t like politics. The line of the day came from zany, green-lipstick-wearing comic GloZell Green, who wondered why Obama would deal with Cuba where former President Fidel Castro, “puts the ‘dic’ in ‘dictatorship.’” She also offered the president green lipstick “for your first wife,” to which Obama quipped, “Do you know something I don’t?”
Your Morning Tweet:
Why would Obama be interviewed by a black woman with green lipstick when he could, say, chat with a white, male, bowtied science denier? #p2
Stat of the Day: Percentage of Americans and Chinese, respectively, who believe their government is “on the side of average citizens”: 12 percent, 80 percent. Who believe their government is “on the side of corporations”: 73 percent, 17 percent (courtesy Harper’s Index).
Duly Noted: Hoya Saxa: On this date in 1789, Georgetown University was established in Washington D.C. In 1845, Congress decided all national elections would be held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November. In 1933, the 20th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, the so-called "Lame Duck Amendment," was ratified when Missouri approved it; ditto the 24th Amendment in 1964, eliminating the poll tax in federal elections and ratified when South Dakota became the 38th state to approve it. In 2005, quarterback Tom Brady and the New England Patriots won the AFC championship by beating the Pittsburgh Steelers, 41-27. No word on whether the balls in that game were perfect.
Happy Birthday, Aquarians: Actress Chita Rivera (82), actor Rutger Hauer (71), Sen. Thomas R. Carper, a Delaware Democrat (68), singer Anita Pointer of The Pointer Sisters (67), actor Richard Dean Anderson (65), call the Dream Police: Cheap Trick lead singer Robin Zander (62), former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa (62), Princess Caroline of Monaco (58), soul singer Anita Baker (57), actress Mariska Hargitay (51), actress Tiffani Thiessen (41), rock musician Nick Harmer of Death Cab for Cutie (40), singer-actress Rachel Crow (17).

