http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/washington-whispers/2015/01/15/john-podesta-the-operatives-operative-gets-ready-for-hillary
John Podesta, the Operative's Operative, Gets Ready for Hillary
He’s the ultimate Democratic insider, the most powerful liberal you’ve probably never heard of, especially if you live outside the nation's capital. To Beltway insiders, John Podesta needs no introduction; when two presidents -- and a woman who wants to be the next one -- know your name, everyone else in this town probably does, too.
So heads turned when word leaked that Podesta, who served two terms with BIll Clinton and helped Obama find his mojo after the 2014 midterms, was leaving the White House to join Hillary Clinton’s campaign-in-waiting. To anyone who’s Ready For Hillary, the news that a heavyweight, dyed-in-the-wool Clintonista was coming aboard might as well have been her "I'm running" campaign announcement.
[ALSO: Hillary Clinton's Potential Presidential Platform]
“He’s just a very important player in Democratic and liberal circles,” Geoffrey Skelley, a political analyst at the University of Virginia’s Center for Politics, tells Whispers. “He’s in a lot of ways the key to liberal thought.”
See Photos
Exhibit A: President Barack Obama’s newfound, post-midterm swagger.
Since Podesta came (back) to the White House as a presidential adviser, Obama has tacked significantly to the left -- witness his executive action on immigration, the climate change deal with China and his current State of the Union prequel tour. At the same time, he’s been almost defiant with new-majority Republicans who claim the midterm results gave them a mandate.
The go-big-or-go-home approach Podesta has advocated in the White House has paid dividends. After nearly two years of underwater poll numbers, the president’s approval rating has scooted up between five and seven points, according to public-opinion surveys by Pew Research Center and CBS News, and once-pointed criticism from liberals (“professional left” ring a bell?) has been muted.
Much credit is given to the wiry Podesta as stern taskmaster, though Skelley says he’s equal parts glad-hander, knuckles-cracker and father-confessor. “He’s probably good at all of the above. Podesta knows when to push, he knows when to pull, he knows when to step back,” he says.
Consider this description from The New Yorker’s John Cassidy:
Even his critics concede that he is an effective and experienced operator. Inside the Clinton Administration, he was known as a hard-working, intense figure with a caustic side. In a Times piece from September, 2000, Robert Pear and John Broder wrote, “Colleagues say, half-jesting, that he has an evil twin named Skippy, who is invoked to bring order to an unruly White House.”
Add “crisis management” to that skill set: As chief of staff, Podesta helped Bill Clinton navigate the Monica Lewinsky scandal and impeachment, and he accompanied Clinton to North Korea in 2009 to negotiate the release of two detained U.S. journalists.
No doubt Hillary Clinton needs what Podesta brings to the table. Critics say her last campaign was unfocused, undisciplined and plagued by costly infighting – problems that Podesta specializes in solving.
[READ: Hillary Clinton Says Working Women Are Good for All Economies]
Yet his biggest asset could be his bona fides as a liberal and die-hard environmentalist who can steer the candidate just far enough to the left. As Cassidy points out in The New Yorker:
A National Journal profile by Ben Geman underscores Podesta’s success in the Obama administration, noting that he's encouraged the president to bypass recalcitrant Republicans and act to protect his legacy -- particularly on environmental issues: :
"The White House had by then decided it needed to pursue a go-it-alone approach on policy in general and would aggressively employ executive orders to bypass a Congress that was intent on yielding no ground, on any issue. To help the White House see this through (and recover from a botched health care law rollout), Chief of Staff Denis McDonough, a CAP alum, urged Podesta to come aboard. He agreed, but only to a short posting, which would include a strong focus on climate.
"He probably recognized that President Obama needed exactly the talents and skills that he could bring," Al Gore, former vice president and a leading U.S. voice in support of action to curb climate change. "I think he has made a tremendous difference. I don't think it, I know it."
The executive-power thing, applied in areas like immigration, has buoyed liberals and angered Republicans, ahead of Hillary Clinton’s 2016 campaign launch, says U.Va.’s Skelley. The White House, he says, “called in a really good relief pitcher of sorts. They needed some direction, and he brought it.”
And it’s likely he’ll do the same not just on the campaign trail but in the White House.
“It’s unquestionably true,” Skelley tells Whispers. “Should she run and win the presidency, I suspect he’d be a head honcho there, too.”
