Tax Plan Claims, Gas Price Boosts And Other Misleading Claims From The 2012 Campaign
Soon the election will be over, and so will all of the obsessive fact checking.
Throughout the election both candidates have made gaffes and misstated facts and figures when talking about a variety of issues. In some cases, the statements have been retracted or edited, but both Obama and Romney have stood by false statements to this day. With the debates in the past, hopefully there will be making egregious errors -- but we're not holding our breath.
Take a look at some of the worst economic inaccuracies from this election season:
"Syria is Iran's only ally in the Arab world. It's their route to the sea, " Romney said during the third presidential debate Oct 22, 2012. The reality: Iran doesn't share any borders with Syria.
"At the same time, gasoline prices have doubled under the president. Electric rates are up," Romney argued during the third presidential debate. The truth: Presidents have very little impact on gas prices in general.
"Absolutely. Six studies have guaranteed -- six studies have verified that this math adds up, but here's the other point," Paul Ryan said during the vice presidential debate. The truth: Many economists and journalists have said that the Romney-Ryan tax plan doesn't add up.
Obama criticized Romney's plan to cut funding from Planned Parenthood, saying that many women get mammograms at Planned Parenthood, during the second presidential debate. The truth: While Planned Parenthood does offer many crucial services for women's health, it does not perform mammograms.
"Gov. Romney's been having a tough time here in Ohio because everyone knows he was against saving the auto industry," read a post on Obama's Twitter earlier this month. The truth: Romney said that government help was not out of the question for the auto industry in his New York Times op-ed in 2008.
"Our Navy is smaller now than at any time since 1917," Romney claimed on October 22. The truth: There are 285 active ships in the Navy as of 2012. There were 278 in December 2007.
"So at the same time that my tax plan has already lowered taxes for 98 percent of families, I also lowered taxes for small businesses 18 times," Obama claimed during the first presidential debate. The truth: It actually comes out to 14 tax cuts, only 5 of which still exist.
"I want to make sure we keep our Pell Grant program growing," Romney said during the second presidential debate. The truth: The Romney-Ryan plan proposes significant cuts to Pell Grant funding.
"The top 5 percent of taxpayers will continue to pay 60 percent of the income tax the nation collects. So that'll stay the same. Middle-income people are going to get a tax break," Romney claimed during the second presidential debate. The truth: The top one percent of American earners stand to receive one third of the benefits under the Romney/Ryan tax plan.

