Fixing the Overseas Tax Mess - NationalJournal.com
Starbucks has 21 coffee shops in Berlin. It has 50 locations in London. In the last three months of 2014, its European and Middle Eastern sales generated $333 million in revenue. The coffee giant prides itself on being a global entity with a distinct American identity. But like other U.S. multinational corporations, Starbucks suffers from a uniquely American phenomenon: the highest corporate tax rate in the industrialized world.
U.S. companies pay almost 40 percent in taxes on all earnings, whether the money is made stateside or overseas. This puts them at a severe disadvantage in foreign markets. For example, Starbucks rival Costa Coffee is a British company subject to the United Kingdom's much lower corporate tax rate of 20 percent. Right out of the gate, the Costa Coffee at 200 Piccadilly in London shoulders only about half the tax burden of the Starbucks coffeehouse one-fifth of a mile away, at 171 Piccadilly. Under U.S. tax law, Starbucks pays U.K. taxes first and gets a U.S. tax credit for that amount. Then it pays the additional amount it owes in U.S. taxes, reaching nearly 40 percent.
Starbucks has asked lawmakers to eliminate U.S. taxes on foreign earnings. But it isn't just Starbucks. The near-universal cry from businesses and economists of all stripes is that U.S. taxation of international corporate earnings isn't fair—or wise. A quirk of the tax code is that American companies don't have to pay U.S. taxes on foreign earnings until they bring that money back home. So businesses delay this as long as possible by keeping their investments overseas or setting up new headquarters abroad. (To wit, Starbucks has regional headquarters in London.) The Treasury Department says the United States forfeited some $42 billion in revenue from overseas tax deferrals last year.
Tax experts say U.S. corporations can't be blamed for doing whatever they can to avoid paying steep fees. But it's bad economics to keep all that money out of the country. "U.S. multinationals are a major source of jobs. They are highly disadvantaged in the current system by the high corporate rate. They have used every single possible mechanism that exists in the current code, including deferral, to essentially address the competitive disadvantages. It's now time, though, to change that," economist Laura D'Andrea Tyson told Congress at a recent hearing.
Tyson's work touts progressive economic ideas generally championed by Democrats. She supports a carbon tax and raising the minimum wage. Yet she describes the problem of the high corporate tax rate the same way the conservative Heritage Foundation does. Heritage economist Curtis Dubay recently wrote that the U.S. overseas tax "is an anachronism that is depressing domestic investment and stifling wage growth and job creation for American workers."
Republican and Democratic politicians agree on the general idea of reducing taxation of overseas earnings. To encourage businesses to bring the $2 trillion they have stashed in other countries back to the United States, President Obama has proposed a 14 percent tax rate on existing overseas profits and a 19 percent rate for future foreign earnings. Republican Rand Paul and Democrat Barbara Boxer recently joined forces to propose a onetime rate of 6.5 percent for U.S. companies that want to bring their foreign cash back home. Free-market evangelist Paul Ryan wants to do away with the overseas tax entirely. Each of these proposals would add billions to the U.S. Treasury. According to the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, even junking the international tax, as Ryan proposes, would bring in about $76 billion over 10 years (because corporations would no longer be able to deduct expenses associated with foreign operations, and U.S. taxes on royalties would be better calibrated).
Of course, none of this has happened, because tax legislation is always a dicey proposition on Capitol Hill. John Thune, the No. 3 Republican in the Senate, is one of many lawmakers who believe that shrinking overseas taxation should be part of a major tax overhaul. In a recent interview, he told me that momentum is growing to pass a "onetime repatriation" for overseas earnings this year. In other words, the problem would be fixed in the short-term—but it wouldn't yet be solved for good.
This article appears in the March 14, 2015 edition of National Journal Magazine as Fixing the Overseas Tax Mess.

