http://www.nationaljournal.com/off-to-the-races/a-tough-path-to-the-presidency-20150209
A Tough Path to the Presidency - NationalJournal.com
There's an old joke that each morning, every U.S. senator looks in the mirror and sees a future president.
From the time I moved to Washington, in 1972, through 2012, 46 sitting senators ran for president—publicly declaring their candidacies and/or putting their names on at least one primary or caucus ballot—not to mention 17 other former members of the Senate who also gave it a shot. Obviously some of their candidacies didn't even make it to the Iowa caucuses or to the New Hampshire primary, let alone through to the national convention or the general election. That's what happened in 1976, when Democratic Sens. Birch Bayh (Indiana), Lloyd Bentsen (Texas), Robert Byrd (West Virginia), Frank Church (Idaho), and Scoop Jackson (Washington) all ran, alongside former Sen. Fred Harris (Oklahoma). President Gerald Ford looked exceedingly vulnerable, the blood in the water drawing so many from the Senate to run even though it was a little-known former governor of Georgia, Jimmy Carter, who went on to win the nomination and unseat Ford.
The biggest presidential election campaigns for senators taking the plunge were 1972, when eight senators actually threw their hats in the ring, and 2008, with seven. These numbers don't include a host of other members of the Senate who at some point were touted in the media by what wags used to call "the Great Mentioner," whether those mentions were actually serious or were trial balloons that promptly sank.
The irony, of course, is that before 2008, which featured a general election between Sens. John McCain and Barack Obama, no sitting senator had actually won the presidency since John Kennedy in 1960 and before that Warren G. Harding in 1920. But that didn't stop scores from running.
Against that backdrop, consider that no sitting senators ran in 2012 (Rick Santorum was a former senator). As of now, there are only three on the GOP side—Ted Cruz, Rand Paul, and Marco Rubio—none of whom has yet served even a full term (of course, that didn't seem to hurt then-Sen. Obama in 2008). Independent Sen. Bernie Sanders is considering a bid, likely for the Democratic nomination, as is former Sen. Jim Webb.
There is no shortage of possible explanations for senators' lack of success, as tenure in Congress has become increasingly problematic for those running for president. Washington in general and Congress in particular are much reviled, with many now saying that the Senate has become more of a debating society than a productive legislative chamber, that the Senate is where legislation goes to die. The Congressional Record becomes a permanent paper trail of votes and floor speeches that provide opposition researchers with a veritable banquet of juicy morsels to be translated into negative attacks,of both the legitimate and greatly misconstrued varieties. The longer someone has served in Congress, the longer the paper trail. Thus, the best course of action is to proclaim that you've never served in Congress or worked in Washington; or that when you did, it was a long time ago when the place actually functioned; or, finally, that you just recently got there, so it obviously isn't your fault.
Whether this relative lack of experienced senators running for president is a good or bad development is a good topic for debate. On one hand, few experienced denizens of Capitol Hill running for and ultimately becoming president means more on-the-job training. There is no shortage of people who believe that President Obama would have been more effective had he spent more time in Congress, garnering a better understanding of the institution and developing closer relationships. On the other hand, others believe that executive experience is far superior, that governors have developed a skill set more suited to the White House, even if the issues that they dealt with in their state capitals might have been different. There is probably truth to both cases.
One obvious argument against all of this is that two elections do not a trend make—that in 2020 or 2024, we could see the Senate cloakrooms clear out with a half dozen or more veteran lawmakers running—but at the very least it is an interesting development.
