http://feeds.washingtonpost.com/c/34656/f/636570/s/445f7b9f/sc/7/l/0L0Swashingtonpost0N0Cblogs0Cpost0Epolitics0Cwp0C20A150C0A30C130Cobama0Emeets0Ewith0Eparents0Eof0Eslain0Ehostage0Ekayla0Emueller0C/story01.htm
Obama meets with parents of slain hostage Kayla Mueller
President Obama was in Phoenix on Friday, where he met with the parents of slain hostage Kayla Mueller and Cory Remsburg, an Army Ranger who was badly wounded in Afghanistan. (Scott Olson/Getty Images) President Obama met Friday with the parents of Kayla Mueller, a 26-year-old hostage who was killed while being held by the Islamic State in Syria. For Obama, who was in Phoenix to tour a VA Medical Center, the visit was an opportunity to offer condolences to Carl and Marsha Mueller, whose daughter was killed last month, the White House said. The Obama administration, which is in the midst of its review of its hostage polices, has been criticized for not being more open in its dealings with the families of hostages. The Muellers have said that the White House put its policy of not paying ransom ahead of their daughter's life. "Any parent out there would understand that you would want anything done and everything done to bring your child home," said Mueller's father Carl in an interview with NBC News. "And we tried and we asked. But they put policy in front of American citizens' lives, and it didn't get changed." The White House said in a statement that Obama appreciated the chance to hear more from the Muellers about Kayla’s compassion and work to help those in need around the world. The Muellers have set up a “Kayla’s Hands,” a foundation to improve the lives of others. Before leaving Phoenix, Obama also paid a surprise visit to Cory Remsburg, who was badly wounded by a bomb in Afghanistan. Remsburg received a long ovation that became the most moving and memorable moment of Obama's 2014 State of the Union address. The president, who has met with Remsburg several times before and after he was wounded, brought the former Army Ranger several housewarming gifts, including some White House-made beer.
