February Sales Show Big Month for Big Cars
February was an overall positive month for U.S. auto sales, though at least five major carmakers fell short of sales expectations.
Monthly sales figures released Tuesday by some of the biggest names in transportation showed General Motors, Ford Motor Co., Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, American Honda and Nissan North America failed to reach projections released last week by Kelley Blue Book, though Ford was the only member of that group to see a year-over-year sales decline in the month of February.
Toyota was the only major automaker Tuesday morning to exceed Kelley Blue Book expectations, selling 180,467 vehicles last month and recording a year-over-year gain of 13.3 percent. Kelley Blue Book expected Toyota to sell 180,000 units.
The six largest automakers in terms of U.S. sales together sold 44,348 more cars than they did last February but were still more than 31,000 cars short of Kelley Blue Book’s expectations.
[READ: Behind the Numbers in Forbes' Billionaires List]
Fiat Chrysler, which includes its two namesake brands along with Jeep, Dodge and Ram, saw sales increase 6 percent year over year to give the company its best February sales figures since 2007. The automaker was bolstered by a 21 percent year-over-year jump in Jeep sales and a 12 percent rise in Ram Truck brand sales.
February’s sales numbers were strong across the board for trucks and large vehicles typically labeled “gas-guzzlers” as depressed oil prices make such options more affordable.
GM, which includes subsidiaries like Buick, Cadillac, Chevrolet and GMC, saw a 4 percent uptick in total sales but a 36 percent rise in truck sales. Cadillac Escalade sales jumped 86 percent, and GMC Yukon and Yukon XL sales rose 43 percent and 85 percent, respectively.
“Our new SUVs and crossovers, combined with the three-pickup strategy we outlined more than a year ago, are dovetailing perfectly with the growing U.S. economy and a stronger job market,” Kurt McNeil, GM’s U.S. vice president of sales operations, said in a statement accompanying the automaker’s sales figures.
[MORE: Mitsubishi, Ferrari, Porsche Most Overused Cars in Video Games]
Nissan truck sales were up 11.5 percent year over year, while its car sales slid 2.9 percent. American Honda, which includes both Honda and Acura figures, saw car sales slide 1.4 percent while truck sales jumped 12.6 percent.
Ford sales, down 2 percent year over year, were salvaged by the F-Series line of pickup trucks’ 7 percent year-over-year gain. Ford’s Explorer sport utility vehicle garnered a 32 percent sales increase from last February.
And Toyota, the only major automaker to exceed expectations in February, saw car sales jump 7.6 percent, while truck sales shot up 20.2 percent.
"The auto industry is off to its best start since 2007 as truck demand continues to rise," Bill Fay, Toyota division group vice president and general manager, said in a statement accompanying the company's monthly sales figures. "Sales of Toyota light trucks and SUVs, led by RAV4, set a new [personal] February record."
Two other major auto groups are expected to release sales figures this week. Hyundai, Kia and Porsche, part of the Volkswagen Group, had not yet released their data at the time of this article’s publication.
[MORE: PayScale Study Suggests Employer Concern Over Skills Gap]
The Volkswagen Group is made up of Volkswagen, Audi and Porsche, among other brands. Volkswagen sales were down more than 5 percent year over year. And, although Audi sales gained 5.3 percent from last February, the A3 line was the only Audi product sold last year that increased sales year over year. So without a strong showing from Porsche, the Volkswagen Group is likely to fall short of expectations.
The Volkswagen Group, Hyundai and Kia made up only 11 percent of the country's automotive sales last February. So while total auto sales are likely to increase year over year, they are not likely to reach Kelley Blue Book's expectations.
“Gas prices inched back up [in February], but it didn’t appear to have much impact on shoppers’ choices. We’re still seeing a strong market for trucks and SUVs – especially compact crossover SUVs, which continue to ride an impressive wave of popularity,” Edmunds.com senior analyst Jessica Caldwell said in a February sales forecasting report. “It is likely that the hard-hitting winter weather motivated some buyers to upgrade from their two-wheel drive vehicles.”
Small car sales weren’t a total wash. Nissan’s Infiniti brand sales were up 25.1 percent year over year, while Ford sold nearly 8,500 Mustangs for a 32 percent gain over last February.
And Lincoln, perhaps bolstered by actor Matthew McConaughey’s infamous foray into advertising, commanded a 3 percent jump in sales from last year.

