Income and Wages Rise in January as Oil Weighs on Spending
Personal income in January increased $50.8 billion, or 0.3 percent, month over month, marking the 14th consecutive month of growth as employee compensation ballooned more than $110 billion to nearly $9.45 trillion, according to a report issued Monday by the Commerce Department.
National wages and salaries grew $42.4 billion in January, up from December’s $8.6 billion increase and representing a 10th straight month of growth. Real disposable personal income, adjusted for inflation and price changes, expanded 0.9 percent in January.
[READ: India's Economy Chasing China]
Wage growth has been modest in recent months despite continued success in other facets of the economy, like employment figures and housing prices. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen said in her testimony before the Senate Banking Committee last week that she considers wages a key component in assessing overall economic health.
“The fact that wage growth has really not picked up very much during this recovery I take to be another signal that, although the labor market is improving, we have further to go,” Yellen said Tuesday.
But Monday’s report represents a sign of movement in the right direction. Rising wages can help contribute to increased consumer spending, which analysts consider to account for roughly 70 percent of the domestic economy, according to the Associated Press.
[MORE: Oil Price Decline Leads to Consumer Price Index Drop]
Though consumer spending fell 0.2 percent in January after dropping 0.3 percent in December, diminished oil and food prices weighed heavily on the monthly data. When adjusted for inflation and volatile prices, real personal consumption expenditures in January actually rose 0.3 percent month over month.
“Falling inflation has helped boost real wages to a multi-year high. However, weaker price pressures have also begun to weigh on consumers’ decisions to spend,” Lindsey Piegza, chief economist at Sterne Agee, wrote Monday in a research note. “This morning’s report again shows positive real consumption, however, consumers are also ramping up savings at the start of the year.”
Rising wages and modest savings translated to an increase in personal savings, which is calculated by subtracting personal outlays and taxes from income. The figure jumped $68.9 billion in January to its highest monthly level since December 2012, meaning Americans on the whole were able to bolster their savings accounts in the month of January.
[STUDY: Ozone Restrictions Could Come With Trillion Dollar Price Tag]
Brad McMillan, chief investment officer for Commonwealth Financial, says the country’s steadily-growing job market has been a boon to consumers and could help boost wages even further. January’s strong employment report from the Labor Department saw nonfarm payrolls across the country rise by 257,000 jobs as 703,000 people entered the domestic workforce.
McMillan says the growing number of workers entering the labor market may soon force companies to ratchet up wages to attract quality talent.
“Employers are going to have to start bidding up wages pretty soon,” says McMillan. “We’re finding the people who are least able to be employed, least marketable, they’re coming back into the labor force. All of this bespeaks a labor market that actually is starting to hit capacity.”

