http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/data-mine/2015/02/06/college-freshmen-socialize-less-feel-depressed-more
College Freshmen Socialize Less, Feel Depressed More
College freshmen are spending less time socializing with friends and partying, and more time interacting through online social networks and studying.
Perhaps as a result, students' emotional health has dropped to an all-time low, according to a survey by the University of California-Los Angeles.
"When we look at the fact that students are spending more time studying and less time socializing, they're not having a way to release some of that stress," says Kevin Eagan, an assistant professor in residence at UCLA and lead author of a report on the survey's findings. "Those two factors combined may be contributing to added levels of feeling overwhelmed or feeling depressed as they come into college."
[READ: Gallup-Purdue Index Measures the Magic Equation to Student Success]
The American Freshman Survey collected responses from about 153,000 full-time, first-year students at more than 200 four-year public and private institutions in 2014. An increasing number of students – now 38.8 percent – said they spend less than five hours each week with friends, while just 18 percent said they spend more than 16 hours weekly with friends. It's the opposite of the picture student responses painted in 1987, when two-thirds said they spent more than 16 hours each week socializing.
At the same time, college freshmen now report increased interaction through social media. The percentage of students who spend six hours or more each week using social media has increased by 44 percent, from 18.9 percent in 2007 to 27.2 percent in 2014.
"Such increases may continue to influence how students conceptualize socializing with friends," the report said.
Also on the decline are students' self-reported mental and emotional health. Students who began college in 2014 entered with the lowest-ever level of emotional health as measured by the survey, with just 50.7 percent reporting above-average emotional health. And the number of students who said they frequently felt depressed jumped from a low of 6.1 percent in 2009 to 9.5 percent in 2014.
[MORE: Having High Levels of Student Loan Debt Can Hurt Your Health Too]
Students who felt depressed were also more likely to report being disengaged from school. They were twice as likely to frequently come to class late or to fall asleep in class. They additionally were more likely to say they were frequently bored in class and less likely to study with other students or work with others on group projects.
Overall, high school students, particularly seniors, appear to be taking school even more seriously than students did 10 to 20 years ago, Eagan says. That's evident not just in the social behaviors of students, he says, but also in college application trends. About a decade ago, roughly 10 percent of students said they had submitted seven or more college applications, Eagan says. In 2014, the percentage increased to more than one-quarter.
"The time has shifted away from partying, away from drinking, and toward studying and extracurricular activities," Eagan says. "Students have been receiving this message for years now that they need to really do as well as possible in school and become involved in a number of different extracurricular activities to really make their college application that much more attractive."
[ALSO: Teen Drinking Continues to Decline in the U.S.]

Other findings from the American Freshman Survey:
