http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/data-mine/2014/12/09/malaria-kills-fewer-people-but-ebola-is-a-threat-to-progress
Malaria Kills Fewer People, But Ebola Is a Threat to Progress
Ebola has gotten much attention on the world stage compared to other infectious diseases, like malaria, that occur more frequently. But Tuesday even malaria got some good news: The number of deaths from the mosquito-borne parasitic disease has fallen dramatically from 2000 to 2013 and cases are declining steadily, according to the World Health Organization.
Still, the report says progress on malaria in countries affected by Ebola is at particular risk. In Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia – the countries most affected by Ebola – 6.6 million malaria cases have been diagnosed, and 20,000 resulted in death. Ebola also is deadly, and has killed more than 6,300 people, according to latest data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The majority inpatient health facilities remain closed in these countries, the report states, while attendance at outpatient facilities is down to a small fraction of rates seen prior to the outbreak.
The World Malaria Report showed that from 2000 to 2013 the mortality rate decreased by 47 percent worldwide and by 54 percent in Africa, where about 9 in 10 deaths from malaria occur. The reduction took place even though the African population living in areas where malaria is often transmitted increased by 43 percent.
WHO found there were about 198 million cases of malaria worldwide in 2013, with an estimated 584,000 deaths. Though it has been nearly eradicated in the U.S., the most deadly type of four malaria strains occurs in Africa south of the Sahara.
[READ: Obama Praises Ebola Vaccine Testing, Calls for More Funding ]
Countries that had zero incidence of malaria in 2013 include: Azerbaijan, Sri Lanka, Argentina, Armenia, Egypt, Georgia, Iraq, Kyrgyzstan, Morocco, Oman, Paraguay, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan. The data show that 64 countries are on track to meet the Millennium Development Goal target of reversing the incidence of malaria.
Malaria is a preventable and treatable illness that can be diagnosed through a blood test. It is a parasite that is spread when someone is bitten by a mosquito that is carrying it. Symptoms are similar to those of Ebola , including chills, flu-like symptoms, fever, vomiting, diarrhea and yellowing of the skin and eyes. The illness can be life-threatening but also can be treated with drugs.
Prevention methods include medications and insecticide-treated bed nets ; the use of the latter increased substantially from 2000 to 2013. In 2013, almost half of all people at risk of malaria in sub-Saharan Africa had access to an insecticide-treated net – a significant increase from 3 percent in 2004.
“We can win the fight against malaria,” Dr. Margaret Chan, a director at WHO, said in a statement. “We have the right tools and our defenses are working. But we still need to get those tools to a lot more people if we are to make these gains sustainable.”
[ALSO: AIDS by the Numbers ]
In 2014, 97 countries and territories had ongoing malaria transmission. An estimated 3.2 billion people are at risk of malaria, of whom 1.2 billion are at high risk. In high-risk areas, more than one malaria case occurs per 1,000 people. One-third of households in sub-Saharan Africa in which incidence occurred did not have bed nets.
WHO plans to continue to build on its efforts. “The next few years are going to be critical to show that we can maintain momentum and build on the gains,” Dr. Pedro Alonso, director of WHO’s Global Malaria Program, said in a statement. By year's end, a record 214 million bed nets are scheduled for delivery to endemic countries in Africa.
