Lights Out at Camelot
The autumn sun is bright as I walk by Ben Bradlee's N Street house in Georgetown. Like the magnificent man, the mansion looms larger than life.
It's a red-brick, barrel-chested residence that had belonged to the rich railroad man, Robert Lincoln, the 16th president's oldest son. I remember that then-Sen. John Kennedy and his enchanting wife Jacqueline once lived on this street and were chums of the Bradlees – Ben and his second wife, Antoinette. Bradlee and his third wife, the one and only Sally Quinn, had the best parties in town here – just a twinkling ago.
Now that Bradlee is gone at 93, it seems the last candle at the court – yes, Camelot, real or imagined – is gone. The flickering, burnt light from the easy elegance of the early 1960s, and every character you can name, has left the round table. Bradlee outlived his friend, President Kennedy, by 51 years almost exactly. Strange that he had ties with two presidents whose bloody deaths caused the greatest outpouring of grief.
[SEE: Political Cartoons]
Benjamin Crowninshield Bradlee and I were once in the same room, aptly, in the Watergate. The Washington Post was celebrating its triumph, proud because there is only one American newspaper that ever forced a president to resign – and how richly Richard Nixon deserved his fate. He was a very good hater, the best one ever to live in the White House. But for Bradlee back in the early 1970s, Nixon might have reigned – or rained – more hatred and lies on the land. The national good versus evil drama ended well, but, as the Duke of Wellington said about the Battle of Waterloo, it was "a damn near-run thing."
When I observed the glamorous, gruff Bradlee across the room, there were few surprises. Supremely confident, he had aged well in an honest way that women are not allowed, if you know what I mean. I had read his memoir, "A Good Life," and knew he was an American original. I remembered a small detail: Looking for a job, he didn't get off the train in Baltimore because it was raining and so missed the chance to do newspaper work there. Why would he ever do that?
[MORE: Editorial Cartoons on Congress]
A Bostonian by birth and many family generations, Bradlee was not just a WASP. In all likelihood, he was descended from the Puritans who ruled the Massachusetts Bay Colony. They were made of very tough stuff. So was Bradlee. His polio as a boy had helped to make him steely.
But here's the extraordinary thing: Bradlee was a man that men loved to love. That's what stood out to me at the Watergate. Journalists are hardened, skeptical souls. But these seasoned Post reporters and editors, men especially, had the softest eyes, with the look of love. They adored him. He had hired many of them and seemed to be a father figure, if not the king of a tribe or court. Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein were there, in their 60s, but they were suddenly young and eager to please Bradlee again. He radiated a rakish joie de vivre to just about everyone he passed by.
Everyone loved Ben. You didn't need to know him to feel so sorry to see him go.

