'Africa Is Ready to Go Forward'
As an American who needs to know more about Africa, like almost all of us, I was lucky enough to meet Amini Kajunju while the historic U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit was going on. It's a huge gesture by President Barack Obama's administration, bringing together heads of state, business leaders and policymakers. A dinner will be given tonight at the White House, but the events are going on all over town.
I asked Kajunju to speak to me – and readers – in a conversational tone as I asked her elementary questions. As the president and CEO of the Africa-America Institute in New York, she graciously complied. She's winning and crisp, age 43, in the swim of the summit.
Where were you born?
In the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I've lived in Japan, Liberia and studied in the U.S., at Brigham Young University, where I studied international relations.
[SEE: Political Cartoons]
What is the general purpose of the summit? Building a critical mass?
It's an important first step to strengthening U.S.-African relations. The U.S. needs Africa more now because of changing politics. China and India and Brazil want access to Africa. So the U.S. has to work harder. It's not the only game in town.
What about the recent troubles in Nigeria, the kidnapping of schoolgirls?
Young men who are unemployed, with no schooling, it's terrible. If the U.S. is concerned about terrorism in Africa, ask American companies there for more goods and services, more partnerships to build business. Less of, you know, 15 cents to feed this child and more economic empowerment.
Tell me more about that.
Well, in one statistic: The richest nation, South Africa, has 27,000 schools, but 11,000 have no toilet. Nation-building all over the continent is a very complicated process. Businesses are looking for what can be exported to Africa. And Africa is ready to go forward and talk to business entrepreneurs.
Is this something that could be done on the Internet?
Relationships are more important, doing business talks face-to-face. The summit is allowing all kinds of mini-transactions. I am hoping deals will be made, and we'll come away with something to show. Like a new power plant, for example.
[READ: Africa Is Open for Business]
Let me ask you about the president's stance toward Africa.
The conversation is that Obama has not done enough for Africa. Before he leaves office, this is a grand gesture to erase that perception.
Is there an American business success story in Africa?
Yes, GE [General Electric] gets it and will be honored at our gala.
What does America still have that's better than the rest of the field?
Higher education. Job skills training is critical – rather than military training. That's what the U.S. does so well.
I came away from our talk thinking the high-level summit is a constructive gathering, with no better way for the Obama administration to show it cares about Africa's destiny. It may be a matchmaker of sorts, matching African countries with global business opportunities and, hopefully, setting a clear standard of corporate ethics and citizenship on the incredibly diverse continent.
It's clearly worth a try.

