WATCH: Obama Takes a Joke With Jimmy Kimmel
President Barack Obama showed a flair for comedy Thursday night when he mixed policy with a big dose of personality on ABC's "Jimmy Kimmel Live."
It was the latest example of Obama's outreach to different groups of voters through various types of media, and it displayed the president as a down-to-earth fellow who can take a joke, even at his own expense.
Perhaps the most memorable part of the popular late-night TV show, which has a youth-oriented appeal, was Obama's reading of mean-spirited Twitter posts about him – a regular feature of Kimmel's program in which celebrities read out loud such negative posts about themselves. One of the posts asked, "Is there any way we could fly Obama to some golf course halfway around the world and just leave him there?" To which Obama, a devoted duffer, grinned and replied, "I think that's a great idea."
Another post said, "How do you make Obama's eyes light up? Shine a flashlight in his ears." Obama took that one with good cheer, too.
Kimmel quizzed Obama on the personal side of life in the White House, posing questions that aren't raised by the White House press corps. The host asked the president if he can go to the White House kitchen for a sandwich late at night in his underwear. "I could," Obama replied. "I don't."
Kimmel had introduced his guest as "the first Kenyan-born, Muslim socialist to be elected president." Obama joked later that he was not allowed to drive a car as president because "in Kenya we drive on the other side of the street."
Obama turned serious for a few minutes when he labeled as "criminals" the person or persons responsible for shooting police officers in embattled Ferguson, Missouri, this week. He said the perpetrators should be arrested, and added that police across the country generally do a good job under very difficult circumstances.
[READ: Obama's Policing Task Force Releases Report]
But Obama also said African-Americans have been mistreated by police in Ferguson, citing a new Justice Department report, and they have a right to feel aggrieved and to stage peaceful protests. "What had been happening in Ferguson was oppressive and objectionable and was worthy of protest," Obama said. "But there was no excuse for criminal acts."
Obama was the first incumbent president to make an in-studio guest appearance on a late-night TV talk show, chatting with Jay Leno in March 2009, shortly after he took office. He has also appeared on the programs of Stephen Colbert, Jimmy Fallon, David Letterman and Jon Stewart. And Obama has been comfortable in the role of celebrity in chief from the start.


