http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/Ken-Walshs-Washington/2015/03/12/hillary-clinton-weathers-email-issue
Hillary Clinton Weathers Email Issue
Hillary Clinton's loyalists want Americans to take away a particular perception from her ongoing battle over private emails: resilience.
Clinton allies and advisers say the furor shows that Clinton is and will remain a magnet for endless media scrutiny and the target of attacks by Republicans. "This whole thing is a lesson that there is an enormous amount of hyper-ventilation that goes on around Hillary Clinton," says Democratic pollster Geoff Garin, a former adviser to Clinton during her 2008 presidential campaign. But those who know her say they have seen some positive signs in the way Clinton has handled the email eruption – not taking criticism as personally as she used to, and demonstrating that she is tough and can bounce back from adversity, valuable qualities in a candidate and in a president.
Clinton's 21-minute news conference on Tuesday soothed some of her allies, who were eager for her to get in front of the email story. They were pleased that she addressed legitimate questions being raised by the news media, such as why she used personal email exclusively while serving as secretary of state instead of using both personal and government accounts. (She said it was a matter of "convenience" though she conceded that this decision may have been a mistake.) But her Republican critics and some in the media are complaining that she left many other questions unanswered, such as exactly what precautions she took to prevent sensitive official communications from being read by America's enemies.
[READ: Amid Email Flap, Hillary Clinton Gets Good News]
The episode is reviving the accusation from her years as first lady that she has something to hide and that she believes rules applying to others don't apply to her. This is the subtext of Clinton's image problem as she moves to run for president in 2016, which is widely expected.
The email tale has given Clinton's opponents something new to investigate about her. The House Oversight and Government Affairs Committee has begun looking into whether Clinton violated security and record-keeping rules for the government by using a private email server for official State Department communications. A House select committee investigating the murder of four Americans in Benghazi, Libya is also looking into Clinton's use of email concerning the Benghazi attacks. And the House Foreign Affairs Committee may also start a probe, according to Politico.
I covered Hillary Clinton when, as first lady, she was a key adviser to her husband, President Bill Clinton. The email story has a familiar ring to those of us in the media who have seen Hillary Clinton operate in the past. She can be extremely secretive, from her decision to conduct private deliberations on health care reform without identifying the major participants, to her stonewalling on a controversial commodities investment she and her husband made.
That investment was disclosed by and endlessly scrutinized by the media, and seized upon by the Clintons' political opponents, and she felt under siege. This caused her to circle the wagons and resist explaining what happened. She did that, finally, in a news conference on April 22, 1994, that ran for 68 minutes and became known as the "pink press conference" because of the pink sweater she wore.
The commodities issue, in the end, was underwhelming, too complicated for most people to understand and too boring to capture the public's interest for very long. This is what some Clinton advisers say will happen to the email story – that it will get too complex and dull for people to get upset about it.
[READ: Hillary Clinton Hasn't Quieted Critics Over Email Controversy]
Garin says. "I definitely think she's taken most if not all of the wind out of the sails of the issue. From my conversations, she's reassured most Democrats. And to the extent there's still some debate about this, going forward, voters will see it in largely partisan terms now. But the other thing to remember is there's no real evidence so far that this is something that rank-and-file voters consider to be a burning issue."
Instead, the spin from Team Hillary is that the episode will show Clinton to be a tough, resilient fighter against her political opponents and the media.
