Report: White House, Press Miles Apart
The relationship between the White House and the press corps has gone sour and shows no sign of improving, according to an analysis by the Columbia Journalism Review.
There is "a gulf between the press and the head of state it's charged with covering," the report concludes, adding that the White House is "determined to conceal its workings from the press, and by extension, the public. The research...makes clear that the media most responsible for covering the president and his inner sanctum are given little insight into how decisions are made or who influences those decisions, whether from inside or outside the White House. Evidence suggests that the relationship between the president and the press is more distant than it has been in a half century."
OPINION
I've covered the White House for U.S. News since 1986, and am a former president of the White House Correspondents' Association, and I agree with most of the report's conclusions. The report, in fact, quotes me as saying, "Something really important has gone missing--understanding the president and having both sides trust each other enough so [the press] understands what's going on. We don't understand him as well as we should. And I think the country loses because of that."
Adds Dana Milbank, a columnist for the Washington Post and a former White House correspondent during George W. Bush's presidency: President Obama and his public-relations team are "trying to get their message out all by themselves and they don't feel, correctly or incorrectly, that they need to rely on the White House press corps any more."
During my nearly three decades on the White House beat, I've seen a steady reduction of access and a deepening distrust among presidents and their aides toward the "mainstream media." Obama appears to believe the media are excessively shallow, sensational and cynical. And this isn't a partisan or new dynamic. All five presidents I've covered--Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and now Obama--felt the same way to varying degrees. And it strikes me that most Americans share the presidents' negativity toward the media, sometimes with good reason, and don't rely on the media as they used to.
In this environment, Obama and his strategists have found more ways to bypass the mainstream media than ever, using the White House web site, social media. late-night talk shows, and many other techniques. I spell this out in my new book, "Celebrity in Chief: A History of the Presidents and the Culture of Stardom."
[ALSO: 'The Newsroom,' The New Republic and the New Tech Media Owner]
Susan Milligan, the journalist and former White House correspondent who wrote the CJR analysis (and a contributor to U.S. News), says President Obama's news conferences are a good example of what's gone wrong. "The answers are long, leaving time for just a few questions from a press corps with already-limited access to the president," Milligan writes. "Actual news is almost never made, since the White House has new tools allowing it to release and manage news on its own schedule and terms--its online news report is but one of these."
Milligan adds: "The press, meanwhile, shows itself to be a willing hostage to the modern demands for a click-worthy story and tweetable quote. At press conferences, the overwhelming tendency is to ask about the day's headline or to look for the 'gotcha' question, instead of addressing long-term accountability issues. Frequently, one journalist after the next will ask the same question, as they did during the post-election news conference [in November 2014]. Reporters ask questions not to get information, but to get a reaction. And even with that strategy, they rarely succeed."
All this has resulted in an unhealthy atmosphere that will probably exist far into the future.

