http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/Ken-Walshs-Washington/2015/03/02/a-celebrity-in-the-oval-office
A Celebrity in the Oval Office
Barack Obama has become a pathbreaker in an unexpected way. He realizes that Americans today expect their president not only to be inspirational, educational, managerial and empathetic but also to be a part of popular culture. And he continues to find new ways to play the role of celebrity in chief.
In some respects he is following the lead of previous presidents who achieved superstar status, notably Theodore Roosevelt, Franklin D. Roosevelt, John F. Kennedy, Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton. These earlier commanders in chief had charisma, as all true celebrities do – an aura that made people want to know what they were like and what their ideas were. Each mastered the media of their day and deftly used their notoriety not just to maintain their fame but also to sell their agendas. These skills have become even more necessary in today’s celebritydriven culture, and future presidents will have to adopt some of President Obama’s media strategies to succeed.
[READ: Giving War a Green Light]
The first true celebrity president – able to command attention at will and to capture the nation’s imagination – was Theodore Roosevelt. He became known for leading “the strenuous life,” his memorable phrase for staying as active as possible and excelling at everything he did. Using what he called the White House “bully pulpit,” he captivated America with his sparkling and outsized personality – even inspiring the creation and popularization of the “teddy bear,” named after a young animal he famously spared during a hunting expedition. And he used his fame to popularize his muscular foreign and domestic policies, such as his attack on abusive corporations and greedy millionaires whom he called “the malefactors of great wealth.”
Franklin D. Roosevelt achieved celebrity status as a leader who empathized with fellow citizens suffering from the Depression and, later, became perhaps the most trusted American commander in chief ever, during World War II. Everyday people came to recognize his smooth and soothing voice on the radio, the dominant mass medium of the Roosevelt era. And he used his “fireside chats” to enter America’s living rooms and to inspire confidence that the nation would eventually escape from its economic calamity and win the war. FDR was the first president to cultivate the stars of the entertainment industry, and he built up a huge base of support among actors and actresses from film and the stage, which added to his own luster.
John F. Kennedy was America’s leading man, with looks worthy of a cinema star and a wife, Jacqueline, whose attractiveness and charm rivaled her husband’s. They had style and grace, and the country loved it. He also was one of the best presidents at promoting himself in the media, especially on television, which was becoming a huge force in the country.
Kennedy and his advisers encouraged perceptions of the president as a devoted family man even though, privately, JFK was a womanizer who had trouble in his marriage and lived somewhat recklessly. But Kennedy’s White House team disseminated stories and striking photographs illustrating his commitment to his young children, such as a famous picture of his son John, Jr. hiding under his father’s big desk. Even when JFK skated close to the edge, it benefited him. Having sex symbol Marilyn Monroe sing “Happy Birthday” at a huge party given in the president’s honor in 1962 heightened his allure as a matinee idol.
Kennedy’s assassination in 1963 added to his mystique as the noble young scion of Camelot, where all things seemed possible, until this brilliant leader was struck before he could reach his full potential.
Ronald Reagan was unique – the only president to have been a movie and TV star. He had performed in a string of films and hosted the popular “General Electric Theater” and “Death Valley Days” on television before he entered politics and won the governorship of California. His show business image was that of a decent and genial Everyman determined to overcome adversity and projecting perpetual optimism. This is what he did as president, and his skills as a TV performer were second to none. His speeches were some of the best ever delivered by a president, such as his moving “Boys of Pointe du Hoc” address on the 40th anniversary of D-Day in 1984 when he paid tribute to the men who had scaled the cliffs at Normandy and started the military campaign that freed Europe from the Nazis in World War II.
Bill Clinton was the perfect representative of his baby boomer generation in all its positive and negative aspects. He had a brilliant mind and kept in constant contact with popular culture, from movies and television shows to music and books. Clinton could speak movingly about the needs and strivings of the middle class and the poor, but he was also self-indulgent. His affair with former White House intern Monica Lewinsky almost brought down his presidency, but he survived by successfully making the case that even if he seemed to be a rogue in his personal life, he was actually a good leader. He knew that what the country wanted most from government was peace and prosperity, and that’s what he managed to provide. Because of the Lewinsky scandal – for which the House impeached him and the Senate acquitted him – Clinton’s presidency had the air of a soap opera, adding to his image as the central figure in a compelling and suspense-filled real-life drama.
For his part, President Obama has been a celebrity from day one. He already made history as the first AfricanAmerican president, and the country and much of the world had extremely high hopes for him as an agent of change. His reputation as a potentially transformative leader resulted in his winning the Nobel Peace Prize during his first year in office, even though he hadn’t achieved anything at that point to match his inspirational rhetoric from the 2008 campaign. His superstar status held firm during his first term, and it kept his public approval from sinking to dangerously low levels even when the popularity of his policies faded during his second term.
Obama’s experience showed that celebrity can be perishable. Americans’ attention spans can be short and their patience can abruptly evaporate with a president who fails to deliver on his promises or to meet expectations. But Obama’s experience also shows that a president who deftly manages his celebrity status can eventually bounce back.
Though Obama’s policies contributed to the Democratic Party’s losses during the 2014 midterm elections, resulting in the Democrats losing control of the Senate and additional seats in the GOPcontrolled House of Representatives, the president has since reversed his slide.
[ALSO: The Likability Factor]
To the surprise of many observers, the president has used his celebrity-in-chief status to remind people why they liked him in the first place. He showed that he was a devoted husband and father, which added to his likability. He persistently made the case that he had the middle class’s interests at heart while opposition Republicans seemed intent on promoting the rich and powerful. And he showed that paying close attention to popular culture can give a president important opportunities to promote their agendas and enhance their personal popularity by connecting to contemporary lifestyles, trends, fads and public sentiments.
Just before the Super Bowl earlier this month, Obama placed himself in the middle of one of the biggest TV viewing moments of the year when he gave an interview to NBC, which was broadcasting the game. This has become an annual tradition, and Obama made the most of it. He and interviewer Savannah Guthrie sampled a honey ale brewed at the White House with honey from the first lady’s garden, connecting Obama with the millions of Americans who gather around their televisions and consume oceans of beer on Super Bowl Sunday. He also used the occasion to make a pitch for his budget priorities, such as more spending for roads and education.
In late January, first lady Michelle Obama, a celebrity in her own right for her work promoting good nutrition and supporting military families, abruptly jumped into the culture wars when she praised the controversial movie “American Sniper.” Breaking with show-business liberals who criticized the movie for its positive portrayal of the late U.S. sniper Chris Kyle, she said the film could help Americans better understand the challenges and sacrifices of military life. “More often than not, this film touches on many of the emotions and experiences I have heard firsthand from military families over [these] past few years,” she told a conference.
A major objective of both Obamas has been to enter popular culture more extensively than any of their predecessors. And a big part of their strategy has been to bypass the “mainstream news media,” such as the broadcast networks and the major newspapers, and to take their message to the country and as many different segments of the population as possible. President Obama recently told Vox, a news site described by the president as “for the brainiac-nerd types,” that his White House successor will need to follow his lead and circumvent the MSM , as he has done, to speak directly to as many different segments of the population as possible.
“The balkanization of the media means that we just don’t have a common place where we get common facts and a common worldview the way we did 20, 30 years ago,” Obama said. He added: “My advice to a future president is increasingly try to bypass the traditional venues that create divisions and try to find new venues within this new media that are quirkier, less predictable.”
To Obama, this means giving interviews to late-night comedy show hosts such as Jimmy Fallon; daytime entertainment shows such as “The View”; niche shows such as “Between Two Ferns” with Zack Galifianakis and YouTube celebrities such as GloZell. It also means communicating through the White House website and social media such as Twitter.
Overall, the lesson from Obama’s experience has been that being the celebrity in chief and participating in popular culture can help to improve a president’s effectiveness and build goodwill. Capitalizing on stardom has become a vital tool that occupants of the Oval Office will need to use as much as possible in the future.
Adapted from Kenneth T. Walsh's Celebrity in Chief: A History of the Presidents and the Culture of Stardom (Boulder, CO: Paradigm Publishers, 2015). Permission courtesy of Paradigm Publishers.
