http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/Ken-Walshs-Washington/2014/12/29/obamas-rosy-outlook-ignores-middle-class-reality
Obama's Rosy Outlook Ignores Middle-Class Reality
President Obama is getting bolder in claiming credit for recent improvements in the economy, but this strategy carries a big political risk because it doesn't adequately acknowledge the millions of middle-class people who have been left behind.
The wealth of "typical American workers" has remained stagnant for years, according to numerous sources, including recent studies by New York University economics professor Edward Wolff and the Washington Post. Static incomes are another part of the economic problem that Middle America faces.
[ALSO: Obama Talks Sony, Economy, Cuba and Congress in Final 2014 Briefing]
Yet Obama is presenting an ever rosier picture. Some of this is justified because Wall Street is booming; the national unemployment rate has dropped to 5.8 percent from 10 percent in 2009, and productivity is on the increase. "The U.S. economic recovery took a major step forward in 2014, achieving a number of important milestones," said Jason Furman, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, in a recent statement to the news media. "American businesses set a new record for the most consecutive months off job growth: now 57 straight months and counting. ...At the same time, the unemployment rate fell below 6 percent for the first time since 2008."
But Americans aren't convinced. The latest Associated Press-GfK poll finds that many Americans rate their economic well-being more negatively than they did four years ago. Today, 38 per cent describe their household finances as poor, up from 30 percent in 2010. Half of the people earning $50,000 or less say they and their families have not yet recovered from the last recession. Two-thirds of Americans say it's unlikely that the new Republican majority in Congress will be able to improve the economy in the next two years, and 60 percent say Obama won't be able to improve the economy either.
[Q&A: Obama Botched Timing for U.S.-Cuba Relations]
Some of Obama's fellow Democrats are getting impatient, arguing that the president has failed to protect the middle class. Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., is a leader among Democrats demanding that Obama confront big banks, corporations and rich people and take away some of the advantages they enjoy in federal policies. These voices are likely to grow much louder in the 2016 presidential campaign as they try to influence the national debate on where the United States should be headed.
