http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/Ken-Walshs-Washington/2014/11/25/obama-projects-calm-after-ferguson
Obama Projects Calm After Ferguson
It wasn't Barack Obama the preacher or Obama the proselytizer who addressed the nation Monday night. It was Obama the professor, as he took a relatively dry, academic and measured approach to the furor in Ferguson, Missouri. Obama pleaded for calm in the aftermath of a grand jury's decision not to indict Darren Wilson, a white Ferguson police officer, for the fatal shooting of Michael Brown, an unarmed African American teen ager, last August.
[READ: Ferguson Officer Darren Wilson's Grand Jury Testimony]
See Photos
In a 10-minute address from the White House, Obama said, "First and foremost, we are a nation built on the rule of law. And so we need to accept that this decision was the grand jury's to make. There are Americans who agree with it, and there are Americans who are deeply disappointed, even angry. It's an understandable reaction. But I join Michael's parents in asking anyone who protests this decision to do so peacefully."
"Michael Brown's parents have lost more than anyone," the president said. "We should be honoring their wishes."
He also called on law enforcement officers in the Ferguson region "to show care and restraint in managing peaceful protests that may occur."
"There's never an excuse for violence," said Obama, the first African American president, adding that there has been "enormous progress" in race relations during recent years.
But some of the protesters in Ferguson rejected Obama's advice. There was violence and looting, and some fires apparently were set. Police responded with tear gas and smoke canisters, giving the streets of the small Missouri town the appearance of a war zone.
In his speech, Obama acknowledged that in too many areas there is "deep distrust" between "communities of color" and law enforcement officers, partly because of the legacy of racial discrimination in the United States. He called for "criminal justice reform" to reduce some of that distrust and added: "This is not just an issue for Ferguson. This is an issue for America." He urged Americans not to "paper it over" but to do the work necessary to improve race relations even more.
[MORE: Thousands Rally Across U.S. After Ferguson Decision]
The grand jury's decision was announced Monday night, just before the president's address.
Throughout his six years in office, Obama has dealt with the race issue very carefully, not wanting to appear to play favorites or cause a backlash against his other policies.
In "Family of Freedom," my book on presidents and race, I noted that several other presidents declined to take on the race issue directly for fear of damaging prospects for congressional passage of their wider agendas. These presidents included Franklin D. Roosevelt and John F. Kennedy.
In an interview for the book, Obama told me that be believed his overall agenda would help most Americans, including African Americans, and he saw no need for a separate "black agenda."

