Americans Still Doubt Economic Recovery
Liberals are having serious trouble making a persuasive case that they can solve the nation's economic problems, according to Democratic strategists Stan Greenberg and James Carville.
"The state of the American economy looms over the public, creating long-term pessimism about the state of the country, making the economy, wages and jobs the biggest factor in people's vote in the last national election and the next," Greenberg and Carville argue in a new analysis for Democracy Corps, a Democrat-oriented research organization. "People are aware of improvements in the macro economy and in the labor market, but they are even more aware that new jobs pay less and people have not seen a raise in a very long time." The two influential strategists add: "Republicans are more trusted on the economy by a lot, and conservatives are at parity with liberals on the intellectual arguments. Without progressives really attacking the core economic problems, austerity is still preferred to investments and full-employment spending."
[READ: Skills Gap Leaves Thousands of STEM Jobs Open]
Many people don't see an improvement in the economy in their daily lives, even though some national indicators such as the stock market and the national unemployment rate have improved, the analysis finds, adding: "The lack of progress on ... everyday economic experience leads many to question whether an economic recovery is actually even occurring – 48 percent say, 'The national economy is recovering and more people are getting work' against a nearly identical 47 percent who report that 'There is no economic recovery because individuals aren't seeing any improvement."
Carville and Greenberg, former advisers to President Bill Clinton, also say, "The economy is the largest contributor to an abiding pessimism about the country as a whole, with about two-thirds saying the country is headed in the wrong direction ... With jobs paying less, 36 percent report they are working more hours or took second jobs to make ends meet."
The strategists say, "Despite Democrats holding a five-point partisan identification advantage, people believe by a 43-38 percent margin that Republicans are better than Democrats on the economy....By a 17-point margin, voters favor austerity over more spending, saying that the biggest economic problem our country faces is not a lack of investment to grow the economy, but too much government spending and interference in markets."

