http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/Ken-Walshs-Washington/2014/10/16/obama-seeks-to-calm-ebola-fears
Obama Seeks to Calm Ebola Fears
Hoping to reassure fearful Americans, President Barack Obama has ordered "much more aggressive" monitoring of the spread of Ebola in the United States and said the public should be confident in the government's ability to prevent an epidemic of the lethal virus.
Obama met for two hours with senior advisers Wednesday to discuss the administration's response to the Ebola threat, postponing a fundraiser in New Jersey and a campaign rally in Connecticut. He pledged that a review of the much-publicized Ebola cases in Dallas would determine why two nurses were infected with the disease after they participated in the care of a Liberian man who eventually died of the virus.
[MORE: Ebola Emerges as Election Issue]
Obama said he wanted the government to "make sure that something like this isn't repeated." He emphasized that the virus doesn't threaten the overwhelming majority of Americans and the risk of an Ebola epidemic in the United States is "extraordinarily low."
But two-thirds of Americans are worried about an Ebola epidemic in the United States, according to the latest Washington Post-ABC New poll, and 40 percent are worried that they or a family member could catch the disease.
Obama is trying to ease such fears. He said he has been in contact with nurses who treated Ebola patients at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta and did not consider himself at risk. "I shook hands with, hugged and kissed, not the doctors but a couple of the nurses at Emory, because of the valiant work that they did in treating one of the patients," the president told reporters. "They followed the protocols; they knew what they were doing, and I felt perfectly safe doing so."
See Photos
Obama repeated an announcement made earlier by health officials that a rapid response team from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention would be sent within 24 hours to any hospital where a new case of Ebola is confirmed. The team would help the hospital staff to deal with Ebola cases in the safest, most careful way possible.
Obama said it is important to stop the disease where it has been most prevalent--in Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone--or it could become a true international health crisis, not just a regional one in West Africa.
Obama's critics, however, don't think he has done enough. Some favor a ban on flights into the United States from areas in Africa most affected by the disease. But Obama opposes such a step, considering it unnecessary, White House officials say.

