http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2015/02/23/liberal-media-already-using-gotcha-questions-to-sink-2016-gop-hopefuls
Media Playing GOP Gotcha
Having anointed Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker the front-runner for the 2016 GOP presidential nomination – or at least the front-runner in the fight for the right to challenge former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush for it – the political press is now doing its best to tear him down.
The “great mentioners,” as someone once called them, are well aware of their power to make and break candidates. And in elections past they used so-called “gotcha” questions to remind aspirants for high office that they are not shy about using it.
Somewhere along the line, however, things changed. They started choosing up sides and became advocates for particular policies, and in some cases candidates, which they advanced through the questions they asked.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on the 2016 Presidential Elections]
Right now it’s Walker who’s feeling the heat. As the 2016 campaign progresses, any Republican who looks to be a threat to the Democrats’ hopes for four more years of control of the White House will be subjected to obscure, narrow, even bizarre questions crafted to have an impact on the race and not because they relate to a burning issue of importance to the American people and the future of the country.
With that in mind, here are some news items you can pretty much guarantee you will not see any time between now and the November 2016 election:


Questions about God, abortion, guns and other wedge issues – issues that many Americans both care about and base their votes upon – are reserved for Republicans and are asked in the most hostile ways possible: Is President Barack Obama a Christian? Does evolution exist? Do you believe in the Biblical account of Creation? Answer now, without thinking, and in a sound bite less than 50 words so it fits please.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on Hillary Clinton]
The media don’t ask these kinds of questions of liberal politicians. They’ve been doing politics, not covering elections, long enough to know instinctively what their impact will be. They shape the debate, tilting the playing field like the moving floor in an amusement park funhouse. They split coalitions, drive a wedge between candidates and their base and can push voters of one major party into supporting the nominee of the other.
These reports and the ongoing debate that keeps them alive are generally unfair. Unfortunately the existence of the so-called niche media, websites and publications devoted to telling “the other side of the story,” emboldens rather than shames reporters who ought to know better. Ask most reporters about this and they’ll deny it. To them, these questions reflect what real Americans – many of whom are opposition researchers working for the Democrats – want to know.
