http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2015/01/27/10-questions-senators-should-ask-at-loretta-lynchs-confirmation-hearing
10 Questions for Loretta Lynch
This week, Iowa Republican Sen. Charles Grassley will call to order a meeting of the Senate Judiciary Committee for the purpose of considering President Barack Obama’s nomination of Loretta Lynch to be the next attorney general of the United States.
In the main, the nomination is not controversial – though it should be. As my Frontiers of Freedom colleague George Landrith has written in The Washington Times questions, serious questions, have been raised about the conduct of prosecutors working under Lynch in the office of the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York. They should be enough to slow the nomination’s progress until she can explain how and why the rights of crime victims and their ability to apply for restitution as specified in existing federal law were ignored and what steps she has taken to correct these wrongs.
All that, however, is the tip of the iceberg. How Lynch managed the attorneys at her command is the only window available through which we can catch any glimpse of how she might manage the enormous resources available at the Department of Justice. It is something about which all should be concerned because for years, under both Democrats and Republicans, federal prosecutors have built a culture in which they are a law unto themselves, more interested in winning convictions for any reason than in the pursuit of justice that is their mandate.
[MORE: Political Cartoons on Congress]
Former Assistant United States Attorney Sidney Powell writes about this problem eloquently in her book "Licensed to Lie." In it she recounts not just her own experiences representing a defendant who was part of the massive Enron case but also the wrongs done to former U.S. Sen. Ted Stevens of Alaska, whom federal prosecutors “railroaded” into a conviction that cost him his seat.
Powell alleges, with considerable evidence to back it up, that federal prosecutors routinely and deliberately misstate the facts of a case and the law governing it to judges overseeing their trials, deliberately withhold exculpatory evidence, intimidate potential defense witnesses, stack indictments to run up the potential jail time a defendant may face if convicted on all counts, stitch together pieces of individual laws to make up indictments that are without foundation, lie under oath, threaten businesses, and in general act in a way as to make those involved in the federal justice system endure a Kafkaesque experience straight out of a police state.
If confirmed, Lynch steps into a mess not of her own making but which she will have the responsibility for cleaning up – and she should be held accountable if she doesn’t.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on Barack Obama]
In an interview, Powell suggests a number of questions that senators on the Judiciary Committee should consider asking Lynch at some point during the two days of hearings, currently scheduled to begin on Wednesday. Among them:
These are all serious questions. Some may be arcane or narrow, but all go to the heart of the basic American principle that men and women are innocent until proven guilty and that the burden of proof rests on the government to demonstrate that guilt. Further, and something the senators on the committee need to realize, this does not include making a case so difficult, so complex and so expensive to defend against as to force those who stand accused of wrongdoing to pursue a plea agreement because the risks of not doing so outweigh the benefits of proving one’s innocence.
[SEE: Political Cartoons on Democrats]
The bad actors inside the Department of Justice need to be reined in. If confirmed as the next attorney general, Loretta Lynch would be in a position to do so – but only if she is willing to take on the task. Members of the Senate Judiciary Committee have a chance to test her mettle on Wednesday and Thursday; they should make the most of it.
