http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2015/01/20/obamas-state-of-the-union-tax-hikes-are-reckless
Throwing Every Tax at the Wall to See What Sticks
Can anyone really say they’re surprised that President Barack Obama hasn’t gone down for the count despite the thumping he and his policies got in the November election? He’s been crisscrossing the country in advance of Tuesday’s State of the Union speech, teasing out an agenda for his last two years in office that exceeds the wildest dreams of the most devout followers of the late Eugene V. Debs.
He’s promising “free this” and “free that” to anyone who cares to listen. Lift up the poor on the backs of the rich is an inspiring idea to those who believe they will be lifted up; in practice, that kind of talk usually leads to blood in the streets because, as a matter of economics and of social policy, it simply doesn’t work.
The lynchpin of his design is, once again, a plan to raise taxes – this time by $320 billion. It’s amazing what one quarter of strong growth on an annualized basis (after nearly a dozen weak ones) will do to invigorate the bloodlust liberals have concerning taxes. No matter the question, the answer is always a tax hike.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on Barack Obama]
This time the plan is to increase the tax on capital, which will produce a contraction in the economy just as things were getting moving once again. And to effectively add a second death tax on top of the one that already exists – maybe because the dead don’t vote (outside of Illinois anyway). And to tax banks. And to tax what families are saving to send their kids to college. And to tax individual retirement accounts by capping the amount that can be saved. It’s a tax frenzy, none of which has a chance of passing the new Republican-led Congress unless he uses some or all of this as leverage to win his signature on a corporate tax reform bill that is much desired on both sides of the aisle.
This will frustrate conservatives to no end, especially those who think they have a mandate to lead based on the results of the most recent election. What they fail to understand is that in the American political system, Congress does not lead, not on the big things anyway. That is the job of the president, and this one still wants to take the country down the path that ends when things start looking like they do in Germany or France. From cradle to grave, no matter where you’re going and no matter where they send you, the government will get you there.
People do not understand that, in as much as it may matter, Obama’s place in history is secure. Contemporary historians, the ones who will write the first draft of the historical record of his presidency and his accomplishment will be kind: After all, they might run into him at some future cocktail party in Davos, and it would be awkward had they done otherwise.
[READ: Democrats' Embrace of Paid Leave Issue Could Hurt Party in 2016]
Obama was always about moving the center of the country to the left. Now, unencumbered by the need to run again for office, he is free to do what he wants. He can in good conscience adopt the “throw it against the wall and see what sticks” approach to governing over his remaining two years in office. He can be reasonably confident his opponents on the right will be so consumed with matters related to their own ideological purity that they will waste precious political and intellectual ammunition that could be better spent in the fight against his initiatives.
Over the next 18 months, it will be interesting to watch as the White House’s reckless offense collides again and again with a cautious defense spearheaded by Republicans Mitch McConnell and John Boehner. To employ severally overtaxed sports metaphors, it’s a confrontation likely to produce a running game where yardage is gained sparingly, if at all, while diehard fans scream at the top of their lungs for the kind of Hail Mary pass that would break the game wide open and put points on the board. That all this occurs in a stadium that is more empty than full – too many people can no longer afford the price of a ticket – will largely be lost on the leadership of both teams.
