http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2014/11/13/obama-net-neutrality-and-the-future-of-the-internet
The Future of the Internet Is at Stake
It’s curious that President Barack Obama announced he wanted the Federal Communications Commission to classify the Internet as a public utility while he was in China. Though the “Bamboo Curtain” may in many respects be down, it’s still very much in place where the free flow of information – especially information critical of the government and the ruling Communist Party is concerned.
Obama may have in mind the eventual adoption of the Chinese model of Internet governance, which may also explain his administration’s continued campaign to severe the last remaining ties between the U.S. government – which, after all, created the Internet and shared it with the world – and the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, a U.S. chartered non-profit entity based in California charged with making most of the essential decisions about the governance of the World Wide Web.
[READ: Obama's Net Neutrality Plan Plays Internet Favorites]
The concerns expressed by many that giving ICANN unfettered authority over the governance of the Internet free of concerns about U.S. legal, intellectual property and constitutional safeguards would lead eventually to it coming under the dominance of global groups like the International Telecommunications Union (an agency of the United Nations) are well founded. Curiously, similar perils exist – especially those connected to an increase in the role and influence of the ITU – should the FCC accede to Obama’s demand on this issue of making the web a public utility.
A Rasmussen poll released Thursday finds that 61 percent of those surveyed object to federal regulation of the Internet if it leads to the imposition of so-called “net neutrality” – a long held objective of Obama and his supporters despite the fact that Congress and the federal courts have said (twice in the case of the judicial branch) that the FCC does not have the authority to impose net neutrality on the complex network of suppliers who own and operate the diverse network of which the Internet is comprised.
While this is the leading edge of the ongoing political and policy war to determine what the Internet will look like in the future, it is not the only battle being waged. Lawmakers in Washington are also being asked to consider other game changers like the establishment of an Internet access fee (which is really a tax) that will drive up the price for consumers to underwrite Washington’s profligate spending habits.
There’s currently a moratorium on taxing Internet access, but it is soon to expire. Whether or not Congress sees fit to impose one (and it looks like the current Congress and the GOP-led Congress that begins sitting in January 2015 are strongly opposed) is inexorably intertwined with a proposal to clarify the tax status of goods purchased over the Net – an issue that has split ordinarily natural allies within the free market community.
As things currently stand thanks to a decision by the United States Supreme Court, the sales tax on an item purchased over the Internet must be collected by the seller if the seller has a physical presence in the state in which the buyer resides. If the seller does not have a physical presence – the technical term is nexus – then they are not required to collect the sales tax on goods they sell to out of state purchasers.
[SEE: Political Cartoons on the Economy]
To many, especially those in the business community, this differentiation amounts to a “loophole” that results in preferential tax treatment being given to Internet retailers at the expense of community stores and local mom and pop operations. They want the loophole closed – a change in policy that some advocates in the anti-tax movement say would be a tax increase on consumers that would be political poison.
What both sides are leaving out of the discussion is the difference between “tax avoidance” – the development of smart strategies that lawfully and legally reduces the amount of tax a person must pay to any level of government – and “tax evasion," which is not paying taxes that are due. In many cases, the issue of taxes on Internet sales falls into the latter category rather than the former, because most if not all states have a provision in law (admittedly almost unenforceable) that says consumers should voluntarily remit to the state an amount equal to the tax they would have paid on a good purchased from another state free of sales tax if they had purchased it in their own state instead. Admittedly, it’s easier to understand in practice than it is to explain on paper.
Congress attempted to take up the challenge recently by enacting something called the Marketplace Fairness Act, legislation that would have eliminated the disparity between the treatment of goods sold over the Internet interstate and those sold intrastate.
The legislation passed the Senate but was never considered by the House because of the way in which what it actually did was mischaracterized. Groups like the National Taxpayers Union presented plenty of polling data to indicate that support for bill meant death at the ballot box and would be a deal breaker in a Republican primary. Yet in the election cycle just concluded, no member of Congress appears to have lost his or her seat in the legislature over the issue.
Wyoming Republican Mike Enzi, a conservative who was the lead sponsor of the Marketplace Fairness Act in the United State Senate, was not only re-elected with better than 70 percent of the vote, but saw a primary challenge mounted against him by Liz Cheney, the daughter of former Vice President Dick Cheney, fizzle out into nothingness.
[GALLERY: Editorial Cartoons on President Obama]
In Georgia, Republican David Perdue – a former corporate CEO -- was the only candidate in either the U.S. Senate primary or general election to publically campaign in support of the idea of “E-fairness.” He won both, confounding pollsters and political analysts alike by winning his seat in the world’s greatest deliberative body in a three-way race by more than 50 percent of the vote, eliminating the need for a runoff election.
In the U.S. House, Arkansas Republican Rep. Steve Womack of the 3rd congressional district, the principle sponsor of the Marketplace Fairness Act in his chamber, did not draw a primary challenge and won re-election handily, as did his 1st district GOP colleague, Rep. Rick Crawford. In North Carolina, co-sponsor Republican Rep. Renee Ellmers of the 2nd congressional district flattened her primary opponent by 18 points and easily dispatched her opponent in the general, former "American Idol" finalist Clay Aiken.
Those are just a few examples. House Speaker John Boehner said this week that the Senate-passed version of the Marketplace Fairness Act was dead in the House as far as he was concerned, but that does not mean Congress’ work is done. It is a true inequity, one imposed by government that turns most every person who uses the Internet as a place to shop into a law breaker. This is not sound policy, especially since there are equally as many polls showing the majority of Americans support the idea that all businesses should have to compete under the same set of rules. They agree the federal government shouldn’t be favoring one group of businesses over another and support the local businesses affected adversely by this tax loophole that, by all rights, should be closed in the least invasive many possible.
