It's Obama's War Now
That President Barack Obama would pick the evening of Sept. 10 to give a major address to the nation in which he outlined his strategy for dealing with the Islamic State and the reign of terror it has brought to a section of the Middle East is not without irony.
As Americans, we once again face the prospect of U.S. troops being inserted – or in this case reinserted – into the region. We want to support the president, we want to rally to his side and be, as we were in the days after the 9/11 attack on New York and Washington, one nation in as much as it is possible for more than 300 million people to be. Regrettably, Obama’s actions over the last few years have made that difficult.
Wednesday’s speech was a vast improvement over his we have “no strategy” statement from several weeks ago. As coherent national security policy, it stills falls short – becoming what longtime Washington communications strategist Rich Galen said amounted to “saying, in effect, my strategy is to have a strategy.” Bravo, but what is America going to do Mr. President?
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on the Islamic State]
The decision to send troops – which will soon, no doubt, be called “advisers” with some degree of regularity – to the region divides both the left and the right. Even the reflexively pro-Obama MoveOn.org, which brags openly about the way it helped end “Bush’s War” in Iraq, was polling its list as soon as picture tubes went dark, asking, “Do you or do you not agree with the following statement? [The Islamic State] does not pose an imminent threat to the United States homeland, and the risks posed by expanding our military campaign in Iraq and Syria are too high. MoveOn should launch a campaign to prevent expanded use of U.S. military force against [the Islamic State]."
As much as we may want to support the president and accede to his call for intervention to stop the horrors the Islamic State is perpetrating on innocent civilians and its persecution and forced conversion to Islam of Christians living in the region, we can equally be troubled by our lingering doubts that he is not the man to manage a situation very much of his own making. In his rush to claim victory, to proclaim he ended “Bush’s War,” he is clearly laying the groundwork for one of his own. The responsibility now rests with him, clearly and unambiguously, and no one – not on the left nor on the right – should tolerate any backwards finger-pointing from this point forward. In the final analysis, it is now his war – and we look to him for decisive leadership in waging it.

