http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/665678/s/43be02e7/sc/27/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cworld0Ecup0C114325150CQatar0E20A220EWorld0ECup0Ethe0Elogistical0Enightmare0Ebefore0EChristmas0Ethat0Ewill0Emake0EDie0EHard0E20Elook0Etame0Bhtml/story01.htm
Qatar 2022 World Cup - the logistical nightmare before Christmas that will make Die Hard 2 look tame
By Chris Bascombe
4:29PM GMT 24 Feb 2015
Comments
Before the BBC or ITV consider the opening credits for their World Cup 2022 coverage, let me make a pitch.
We begin just after the festive cliff-hanger of EastEnders with the image of the Three Wise Men convening to follow the beaming star through the desert.
After an arduous journey they arrive at their destination and see the chosen one, a crowd of shepherds already forming for a glimpse of this saviour who will bring joy to the world on this feast of feasts. One by one the wise men take out their gifts and hand them over.
The first is taken and unwrapped. It has the distinctive glisten of gold. Closer inspection brings confirmation. Yes, it is a gold watch, worth around £16,000. It is gratefully received.
The second wise man steps forward and offers what seems to be brown in colour. Is it Myrhh? No, it is an envelope containing hundreds of thousands of Swiss francs. The assembled throng nod in approval.
English game is rich enough to absorb this disruption
Top clubs demand compensation for World Cup move
Fifa recommends winter World Cup for Qatar
A Christmas World Cup? Reaction and news
The last visitor has nothing gift-wrapped but promises an all expenses holiday to a destination of choice. The world holds its breath as, after a moment’s pause, the offering is accepted. There is a handshake and a vow to mark this occasion with the mother of all celebrations during the next available December.
We cut to a couple of faces in the crowd where football pundits Shearer, Lineker and Savage are flanked by a hooded Noddy Holder and Roy Wood. Holder reveals himself, turns directly to camera and lets rips with: “IT’S FO-OO-OO-T-BALL!!!” and the BBC anthem, a reworked version of ‘I Believe in Father Christmas’ by Greg Lake, kicks in.
“They said there’d be goals at Christmas… They said there’d be extra-time…”
The advertising possibilities – the most important aspect of a Fifa (or indeed Uefa (or indeed any)) football tournament - are endless. The 2022 will be a World Cup like no other, a marketing man’s dream as all the limitations and tired notions of a summer tournament with its ingenious identification of massive gaps in the football calendar are ripped up to create the most inconvenient show on earth - the logistical nightmare before Christmas. Marvellous.
There is some suggestion the final itself will be on December 23, 2022 which, I am sure you’ll agree, is one of the most desirable dates possible to hold a major football final. How considerate of the organisers to enable supporters, players and an assembled global media to recreate the chaos of Die Hard 2 at Doha’s Hamad International Airport on Christmas Eve, 2022 as those fortunate enough to be there begin their homeward journey.
Of course, there are some naysayers who think a winter World Cup is a daft idea. They are the same cynics who regularly mock other Fifa ideas such as turning a blind eye to evidence of corruption, the successful application of a modern form of despotism and getting Diana Ross to take penalties. They don’t know how it feels to be part of Sepp Blatter’s football family.
There is a simple solution if you don’t like it. Don’t watch it. In fact, not only should you avoid it you should lobby every broadcaster on the planet (probably with the exception of Qatar TV) not to screen it.
You should tell those who’ve already bought the rights, such as Fox in America, to consult their lawyers and pull out of a deal that was agreed under false pretences – ridiculously assuming a bidding process that made a summer tournament part of the criteria would be held in the summer. How naive. Just because you said that p-----up would be in the brewery, it didn’t really mean it had to be in the brewery - or indeed that alcohol needed serving at all.
You should tell print and digital media (probably more just digital in 2022, to be fair) you don’t care if the qualifiers are ignored and if no journalists are dispatched to Qatar, especially in December when they should be preparing for Christmas with their family (feel free to emphasise that bit, it is very important).
And what would such a media blackout achieve?
All that would happen is the sponsors would get a bit edgy if that image of Blatter dressed as Santa Claus under a logo of a famous cola was never considered worthy of publication other than in Fifa’s in-house magazine. Imagine Fifa’s portfolio of sponsors queuing to renew terms if there was no camera lens to promote that awful… sorry… delicious brand of American beer they continue to try and get us to drink?
The merest hint of such a boycott it would have a negative impact which, you would agree, would be genuinely awful if it damaged Fifa financially and made the Qatar World Cup the biggest catastrophe since the vote that made it happen.
If no one wanted to screen or cover a winter World Cup, and no sponsors thought it worth backing, it would provoke such an emergency they’d have to reconsider whether it was worth playing at all. It would become nothing more than a series of glorified exhibitions games. Who would want to be associated with that?
Fortunately, that will never happen and the preparation for the Christmas-themed World Cup off 2022 can formally begin.
We’ll get bells. We’ll get whistles. We’ll get crackers aplenty.
And whether we like it or not, we’ll join everyone else following the stars to the desert.
World Cup final may take place on 23 Dec: reaction
