http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/665678/s/43b9a943/sc/11/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cworld0Ecup0C11431470A0CQatar0E20A220EWorld0ECup0Efinal0Emay0Etake0Eplace0Eon0E230EDecember0Eafter0EFifa0Etask0Eforce0Erecommends0Ewinter0Eschedule0Bhtml/story01.htm
Qatar 2022 World Cup final may take place on 23 December after Fifa task force recommends winter schedule
By Ben Rumsby, Sports News Correspondent
9:40AM GMT 24 Feb 2015
Comments
The 2022 World Cup was on the brink of being moved to the winter on Tuesday in defiance of massive opposition from the Premier League and other European leagues and clubs.
Fifa announced the task force it set up to explore such a switch for the tournament in Qatar had recommended “end-November/end-December as the most viable period” for what is destined to be the most controversial sporting event ever staged.
But that recommendation, which will be put to a vote of Fifa’s executive committee next month, was far from unanimous and was immediately attacked by the chief executive of the Premier League.
Richard Scudamore was unable to convince representatives of Fifa’s six continental confederations to back instead a move to May-June at Tuesday’s final task-force meeting in Doha.
And despite succeeding in gaining agreement for Qatar 2022 to be shortened by half a week, he was left furious by proposed November 26-December 23 schedule he believes would ruin English football’s traditional Christmas programme.
Qatar 2022 - the nightmare before Christmas
A Christmas World Cup? Reaction and news
Ukraine crisis leaves Fifa in uncomfortable position
Qatar World Cup final could be on Dec 23
Scudamore described the task force decision as “disappointing” and “wrong”, while the chairman of Stoke City, Peter Coates, went further by branding it a “disaster”.
However, Fifa secretary general Jerome Valcke said: “There is one solution coming out from these discussions, which is November-December 2022.”
The view was backed by the chairman of the Football Association, Greg Dyke, who said “it would be ridiculous” to play in the summer due to the extreme temperatures in Qatar at that time of year.
“The best option would be to not hold it in Qatar but we are now beyond that so November-December would seem to be the best of the bad options,” Dyke added, insisting the FA would “try to protect all the traditional Christmas dates”.
Fifa was also able to convince Uefa to support November-December as European football’s governing body backed down from its previous commitment to a January-February tournament.
Scudamore said he felt “a little bit let down by Uefa” after being “pretty much told” about its recommendation.
A switch to the winter would involve a complete overhaul of the fixture calendars of around 50 countries around the world.
Coates told BBC Radio Five Live: “It couldn’t be more disruptive. It couldn’t be more messy.”
Fifa vice-president Jim Boyce, Britain’s most senior football official and part of the ExCo which will vote next month, backed a November-December switch but said a December 23 World Cup final was “too close to Christmas”.
He added: “That’s the only reservation I would have and I would like it a week earlier, but I want to wait until the Fifa executive committee meeting to hear all the details about the dates.”
A December 23 World Cup climax would technically allow the Premier League to resume on Boxing Day.
However, any player involved in the semi-finals and final would almost certainly be rested by his club, which might lead to a competitive imbalance over that period.
The Premier League may deem that serious enough to cancel the Boxing Day programme, which could have a knock-on effect for the third round of the FA Cup.
The Association of European Professional Football Leagues, of which the Premier League is a member, said a November-December World Cup would “perturb and cause great damage to the normal running of the European domestic competitions”.
It added: “Leagues and clubs have reiterated, once again, their joint solution for holding the World Cup during the month of May. This proposal has been structured on a fact-based study which is totally acceptable from the meteorological point of view by providing reasonable climatic conditions with regard to both players and fans.”
Uefa said it saw “no major issues” in rescheduling the 2022/23 Champions League and Europa League.
It added: “Uefa believes that – for the benefits of players and fans – the event should be played in winter and now awaits the final decision from the Fifa executive committee.”
The global players’ union, FifPro, said a winter World Cup was “the only viable solution to protect the health and safety of the players” but also reiterated its call for Qatar to tackle “human rights” abuses in the country.
General secretary Theo van Seggelen said: “Removing players from the danger zone of playing in a Qatari summer is only the first, very important step.”
The EPFL and European Club Association could yet decide to fight any such move legally or seek compensation for the disruption caused.
If not, it would allow Fifa to put to bed one of the biggest issues thrown up by the most controversial ever award of a major sports event.
It ignored serious concerns over the heat in Qatar, where summer temperatures regularly exceed 40 degrees centigrade, in handing the World Cup to the tiny Middle East country in December 2010.
The allegations of serious corruption over that vote to have emerged since merely compounded the controversy over a choice of host from a bidding process in which there was no suggestion of the 2022 tournament being staged in the winter.
Fifa also revealed the task force had discussed staging the 2021 Confederations Cup in another Asian confederation country during the traditional June-July window and using another Fifa competition such as the Club World Cup as the operational test event for Qatar 2022 in November-December 2021.
And the Confederation of African Football confirmed it would move the 2023 African Cup of Nations from January to accommodate a November-December World Cup.
World Cup final may take place on 23 Dec: reaction
