http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568832/s/4296b2c1/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ctennis0Caustralianopen0C113622220CSexism0Erow0Eerupts0Eat0EAustralian0EOpen0Eafter0EEugenie0EBouchard0Eand0ESerena0EWilliams0Eare0Easked0Eto0Etwirl0Eon0Ecourt0Bhtml/story01.htm
Sexism row erupts at Australian Open after Eugenie Bouchard and Serena Williams are asked to 'twirl' on court
By Telegraph Sport
1:26PM GMT 22 Jan 2015
Comments
A sexism row has erupted at the Australian Open after a TV commentator asked Wimbledon runner-up Eugenie Bouchard to "give us a twirl" in a post-match interview.
Bouchard had just beaten Kiki Bertens 6-0, 6-3 in a second round match at Melbourne Park when she was interviewed by Ian Cohen, a Channel 7 tennis commentator, on court. Cohen asked Bouchard - one of the favourites for the first grand slam of the year - to twirl, to which the player replied: "A twirl, like a pirouette, here you go."
The incident immediately provoked a backlash on social media, with fans and pundits pointing out that a male player would never be asked the same question.
Bouchard later said: "It was very unexpected. I mean, yeah, I don't know. An old guy asking you to twirl, it was funny," said the seventh seed.
In a statement to the Daily Mail, Channel 7 said: "The interview, which didn’t air on Channel 7 or 7TWO, was in this instance conducted by a commentator who works for the host broadcaster, Tennis Australia.
Watch: Moment Federer crashes out
Bouchard twirl request was sheer bad manners
Brilliant Murray sparkles again
Keys threatens to power to top with her 75mph stroke
Navratilova backs Watson's period pains complaint
At last, someone mentions the P word
"The host broadcaster provides match coverage and some commentary and interviews, which is seen on our live digital streaming service."
Women's world No1 Serena Williams was also asked to do a twirl on court, but was reluctant to discuss suggestions of sexism.
Williams, a second-round winner over Vera Zvonareva on Thursday, revealed she had also had the same request and not enjoyed the experience, but would not be drawn on whether it was sexist or not.
The American said: "A commentator asked me to twirl. I wouldn't ask Rafa (Nadal) or Roger (Federer) to twirl. Whether it's sexist or not, I don't know. I can't answer that.
Eugenie Bouchard giving "a twirl"
"I didn't really want to twirl because I was just like, you know, I don't need all the extra attention. But, yeah, it was fine.
"I don't think and look that deep into it. Life is far too short to focus on that. We have so many other problems we want to deal with that we should focus on. Whether I twirl or not, it's not the end of the world. It's about being positive and just moving forward."
