http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568832/s/3f075c60/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ctennis0Cnovakdjokovic0C1113470A40CNovak0EDjokovic0Emaintains0Eperfect0Erecord0Eat0Ethe0EChina0EOpen0Ebut0ECaroline0EWozniacki0Ecrashes0Eout0Bhtml/story01.htm
Novak Djokovic maintains perfect record at the China Open but Caroline Wozniacki crashes out
By Amlan Chakraborty
9:31PM BST 01 Oct 2014
Comments
Novak Djokovic maintained his perfect record in the China Open but Caroline Wozniacki’s hopes of qualifying for the year-ending WTA Finals in Singapore took a hit after she crashed out on Wednesday.
Djokovic, the world No 1, needed 85 minutes to defeat the Canadian Vasek Pospisil 6-3, 7-5 in the second round and extend his record to 21-0.
Djokovic, eyeing a fifth title in Beijing, broke the big-serving Pospisil four times and lost only six points on his first serve in a dominant display that boosted his hopes of securing the year-end No 1 ranking.
“You work all your life and you dream about becoming the No 1 in the world, the best in what you do,” Djokovic said. “It’s definitely always the highest priority out there with winning grand slams.
“That gives me plenty of motivation. It would mean, of course, a lot to me. That’s why I’m out here in Beijing and Shanghai, competing and trying to get that year-end No 1.”
Djokovic v Nishikori: as it happened
Murray suffers four-set defeat to Djokovic
Murray set to end adidas sponsorship deal
Murray ends title drought with Shenzhen triumph
Williams withdraws from Wuhan Open after illness
Li Na announces retirement
Rain washed out play on the outer courts, where seeded players including Tomas Berdych and Grigor Dimitrov were scheduled to play. The Bulgarian Dimitrov will meet Djokovic if he goes past the Spaniard Pablo Andujar in the second round.
In the women’s draw, the Australian Samantha Stosur showed flashes of her old brilliance to beat Wozniacki 6-4, 7-6 in the second round.
Wozniacki needed to win the Beijing title to definitely qualify for Singapore but was troubled by the sharp-serving Stosur, who broke her in the seventh game to claim the first set and saved five set points in the tiebreak before closing it out.
Wozniacki can still qualify for Singapore this week, if Angelique Kerber does not reach the quarter-finals and Ekaterina Makarova falls before the final.
Stosur’s third-round opponent will be the Frenchwoman Alize Cornet, who outplayed Lauren Davis 6-2, 6-1.
The third-seeded Petra Kvitova, the fourth and latest to qualify for the eight-player season finale, beat the local favourite Peng Shuai 6-4, 6-2 to set up a third-round clash with Venus Williams.
Serena Williams, Maria Sharapova and Simona Halep are the other three players guaranteed spots in Singapore. The fourth-seeded Sharapova was the first through to the quarter-finals in Beijing after beating Carla Suarez Navarro 6-1, 7-6.
