http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570808/s/3b7afdbf/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cgolf0Cusopen0C10A8991820CUS0EOpen0E20A140EMartin0EKaymer0Edemolishes0Ecourse0Eas0Ehe0Eestablishes0Eeight0Eshot0Elead0Eafter0Etwo0Erounds0Eat0EPinehurst0Bhtml/story01.htm
US Open 2014: Martin Kaymer demolishes course as he establishes eight-shot lead after two rounds at Pinehurst
By James Corrigan, Golf Correspondent, at Pinehurst
1:15AM BST 14 Jun 2014
Comments
As Martin Kaymer was reducing Pinehurst to sawdust yesterday, it was difficult to tell which were falling quicker – records or the jaws of his rivals. At 10 under, with the lowest US Open halfway total already in his grasp, this is surely the German’s major to lose.
Yet, perhaps the most notable statistic was that this is the first time in 154 years of the majors that a player has opened with two 65s or better, although the fact this equals the lowest halfway total in any major ever was also on the staggering side of impressive. This was history and the suspicion is this tournament is history.
And there were those of us who witnessed Rory McIlroy’s Congressional processional three years ago who believed we would not for decades see the likes again – and, more to the point, the USGA would not allow the likes again. But Kaymer played the first 36 holes in a shot less (albeit to a par of 70 instead of Congressional’s 71). With six shots back to the American Brendon Todd, who fired a 67, Kaymer has equalled the US Open’s record 36-hole lead held by McIlroy and Tiger Woods in 2000.
It would actually be a thrilling leaderboard but for Kaymer, with more than 20 players within five shots of second. This includes Henrik Stenson on two-under after a 69 and McIlroy, himself, on one-under – alongside Matt Kuchar and Jordan Spieth – following a 68. On level par comes the world No 1 Adam Scott and the Englishman Ian Poulter, while the defending champion, Justin Rose, is one one-over after a 69. All these and more, such as Graeme McDowell on two-over and Phil Mickelson on three-over, would still be convinced of their chance if Kaymer was behaving anything like a human being.
To think, the lowest halfway score before at Pinehurst No 2 in a US Open had been three-under. Yes, there was a downpour on Thursday night which took the fire out of the layout. But still, Kaymer’s display was virtually flawless.
Donald's search for major continues
US Open leaderboard
McDowell profits from precision
McDowell hails Portrush Open call
Pinehurst goes back to nature
McIlroy hopes Nicklaus advice will pay off
Keegan Bradley, who played with him, and is also on two-under, was enormously impressed. “Martin’s as dialled-in as I’ve ever seen,” he said.
His countrymen Brooks Koepka and Dustin Johnson are on the same mark, trailing Kevin Na and Brandt Snedeker in tied third by a shot, and they joined in with the eulogising. “Martin seems to be playing a different golf course,” said Koepka. Johnson agreed: “On two-under, I would never have believed it would be eight behind.”
Neither would Kaymer. When asked on Wednesday what he would take after four rounds, Kaymer replied: “Eight over.” “I wouldn’t take that any more,” he said yesterday. The word is the 29-year-old originally was not too enamoured with Pinehurst. Yet the former world No 1 knew he was playing well, having led from start to finish at last month’s Players Championship.
This is a step up even on that stunning form. Having radically altered his swing two years ago, Kaymer is peaking once again and last night each and everything seemed possible for the 2010 USPGA champion. For his part, however, he was not counting any birdies before hatch-time. “It’s not a done deal,” Kaymer said.
Obviously Kaymer has done everything right thus far, with only one bogey. He has missed only three fairways in two days and yesterday drove the 307-yard third (his 12th). He has yet to three-putt, although only maintained this run courtesy of several five-to-10-footers. There were sand saves on the sixth and seventh, a 15-footer on the 13th (his fourth) and a 20-footer on the 16th. Playing the 10th first, he played the back nine in 32, to go with his first-round 31, and the front nine in 33.
There was a brief moment of concern when he was seen shaking his wrist but he reported it fine. On the matter of his historic pair of 65s, he was wonderfully deadpan. “Somebody had to do it at some stage,” Kaymer said. “You need to play very solid and need a little bit of luck.”
His exploits overshadowed everything, even the bizarre incident involving Wales’s Jamie Donaldson on the 18th (his ninth). Despite both hitting the fairway on the par four, Donaldson and Hunter Mahan somehow managed to play the other’s ball and when they realised on the green were hit by a two-shot penalty and were forced to return to their ball’s original position. They took double bogeys, with Donaldson going to pieces in an 81 and Mahan agonisingly missing out on six-over after a 72. They were joined in the exit through the gates by Luke Donald, also on six-over despite a 69, and Lee Westwood, on eight-over after a 73. However, Matt Fitzpatrick did make the weekend, on four-over after a 73. It was the 19-year-old’s goal before turning pro on Monday.
