http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568580/s/428d457e/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ctennis0Crafaelnadal0C113598950CRafael0ENadal0Esurvives0Efive0Eset0Escare0Eto0Ebeat0EAmerican0Equalifier0ETim0ESmyczek0Eat0EAustralian0EOpen0Bhtml/story01.htm
Rafael Nadal survives five-set scare to beat American qualifier Tim Smyczek at Australian Open
By Simon Briggs, Tennis Correspondent, in Melbourne
12:36PM GMT 21 Jan 2015
Comments
On a day of near-misses for the would-be giant-killers, the world No 112 Tim Smyczek came within an ace or two of eliminating an ailing Rafael Nadal from the tournament, but could not quite complete the job.
Had Nadal gone out – and he was in serious trouble at two sets to one down, with stomach cramps and dizziness threatening to force him off the court – it would have been his earliest Australian Open exit.
However, if Maria Sharapova possesses the most unbreakable spirit on the women’s tour, then Nadal is the male equivalent, and he gathered himself to mount a bloody-minded comeback. The match clock read 4hr 12min when he finally served out for a 6-2, 3-6, 6-7, 6-3, 7-5 victory.
Nadal has been struggling to subdue lesser opponents ever since last year’s Wimbledon, when he gave the Nick Kyrgios bandwagon a giant push by letting the 19-year-old – then ranked 144 in the world – knock him out in four sets. Since then, he has lost to two other men ranked outside the top 100 – Borna Coric and Michael Berrer – and for much of yesterday’s match it seemed as if Smyczek was about to join the party.
“At the end of the first set, I start to feel my body very bad, very tired,” said Nadal, who called the trainer and the doctor to the court early in the second set. “I was worrying crazy. Then when I was serving for the third, almost throw up. So was terrible feeling, no?
Navratilova backs Watson's period pains complaint
Murray: Why one rule for me, and one for Nadal?
Nadal v Smyczek: as it happened
Murray lines up clash with 'Mad Dog'
“Is true that the weather was ­dif­ferent today than the last couple of weeks: very humid. I am sweating a lot always when it’s humid. But I don’t know [what could have caused the problem]. Long time without ­com­petition, with tough conditions? I should not be that tired after 40 ­minutes.”
Nadal’s opponent yesterday, Smyczek, is a small and wiry character who has to rely on timing rather than brute force. At 27, he has been hovering around the fringes of the top 100 for a couple of years, without any dramatic victories to report. But he is a silky striker, and with Nadal a step short of his usual pace, he was able to dominate the majority of the match.
“It was pretty clear Rafa didn’t have his best stuff,” Smyczek said. “But it just shows the kind of player, the kind of champion he is. He was sick and not playing well, that was his C or D game, but he found a way to win. So hats off to him. I thought I had him for a minute. When he was kind of doubled over I could see he was really hurting. I started to believe that I really had a chance. But he turned it up to another gear. That’s why he’s been one of the best for years and years.”
At the end of a fine day’s entertainment on Rod Laver Arena, Smyczek also earned everyone’s appreciation – especially Nadal’s – with a sporting gesture. Some idiot in the crowd shouted out just as Nadal was hitting his first serve, and the ball flew long, but Smyczek insisted that he be given another chance. It was an especially selfless act when you consider that the American was just two points from defeat at the time.
In the words of Nadal, who will hope to recover in time for tomorrow’s third-round match against ­Israel’s Dudi Sela: “It was a great example, what he did today.”
