http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569351/s/3989326e/sc/7/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Cathletics0Clondon0Emarathon0C10A7760A430CProbe0Eover0ELondon0Emarathon0Erunners0Eshort0Ecut0Bhtml/story01.htm
London Marathon organisers investigating 'short cut' taken by runner who bettered Mo Farah's time
By Edward Malnick
12:56PM BST 19 Apr 2014
A competitor in the London Marathon is being investigated by the race’s organisers amid claims he jumped over a barrier to “skip” nine miles of the course.
Jason Scotland-Williams completed the second half of the race in less than half of the time it took him to run the first, and overall ran more than twice as fast as last year.
The 34-year-old’s time for the latter half of last weekend's race fell just three minutes shy of the world record for a half marathon.
Official race figures place him in the top six per cent of competitors, including professional athletes such as Mo Farah, the Olympic champion, the Sun reported.
The time recorded for the second half of Mr Scotland-Williams’s run was one hour, one minute and 42 seconds - more than three minutes faster than Farah’s time for the same stretch of the race. His final time was 3:08:47, putting him in 2,162nd place.
True horror of the London Marathon
London Marathon - video diary
London Marathon: as it happened
London marathon: top 10 foods
A series of fellow runners have honed in on Mr Scotland-Williams’s results on online forums dedicated to the sport.
They claim he must have jumped over the barrier at the halfway point near Tower Bridge, where a waist-high barrier separates runners passing the 13-mile marker from those reaching the 22-mile point.
In one post on a blog that drew attention to the times, Darryl Morris wrote: “I saw Jason just after Tower Bridge and he was absolutely smashing it.”
He added: “Just noted the barrier skip ... that would make complete sense as to why I saw him there, looking so fresh!”
Another comment said: “He must have jumped over the barrier where the course doubles back, only explanation.”

Official race figures place him in the top six per cent of competitors
Mr Scotland-Williams, lives in west London and works as a model, according to his Facebook page - which was removed on Saturday morning. He has run a number previous marathons, including the London race in each of the last four years since 2009.
He was running the marathon to raise money for Sense, the charity for deaf and blind people. He was pictured during the race wearing a Sense bib and a mask from the V for Vendetta film.
Gill Morbey, chief executive of the charity, said: “We are saddened that a runner who was supporting Sense has come to our attention for alleged cheating.
“Thousands of people have run for Sense and this is the first time this has ever happened. If true, it does a disservice to our charity, deafblind people and our brilliant marathon runners. We will continue to investigate. The marathon organisers are also investigating. In the meantime huge thanks and appreciation to everyone who ran this epic race.”
Virgin Money London Marathon confirmed to The Sun that Mr Scotland-Williams’ times were being investigated.
A spokesman said: “We have anti-cheating measures during the event, and then post-event when we analyse split times from points around the course. Runners found to have cheated are removed from results and banned from future events.”
