http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568808/s/449078ea/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cpicturegalleries0C114818840CTen0Ereasons0Eto0Ekeep0Ewatching0Ethe0EChampions0ELeague0Bhtml/story01.htm
Ten reasons to keep watching the Champions League
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568808/s/448ed0bc/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cmanchester0Ecity0C114819860CYaya0EToure0Eshould0Ebe0Ego0Eas0EMan0ECity0Estart0Erebuilding0Eafter0EBarcelona0Edefeat0Eleads0Eto0EChampions0ELeague0Eexit0Bhtml/story01.htm
Yaya Toure should go as Manchester City start rebuilding after Barcelona defeat
By Jason Burt, Nou Camp
8:09AM GMT 19 Mar 2015
Comments
It might appear miserly in the face of such rich brilliance as Barcelona brought to the Nou Camp on Wednesday night but the Champions League is the ultimate proving ground. And Manchester City failed.
That they failed on such a grand stage was because their big names, their stellar acquisitions, failed. Sergio Agüero failed, not least from the penalty spot, Vincent Kompany failed, not least for his lack of leadership and David Silva failed to orchestrate from midfield. The big beasts failed to take the fight.

But above all there was Yaya Touré. These were the nights for which the Ivorian was bought. These are the nights for which he earns the biggest, highest-paid contract at City and demands the status conferred on him.
These are the nights for which he was signed from Barcelona.
And yet he did not even last the 90 minutes, with Manuel Pellegrini delivering the ultimate verdict on Touré’s callow contribution: he hooked him even though the tie was still alive.
Touré, once so reliable for City, did not even manage to play the full game at Nou Camp
The stats said it all: no shots on target (although there was one powerful effort that brushed the netting), no tackles won, no crosses completed, two fouls, 78 per cent pass accuracy – but no key passes. He was afforded a warm ovation from the Barcelona supporters but that was from memory and was charitable.
Here was another in that catalogue of no-shows for Touré in big European matches and when City needed him most. After all, also, this was Touré’s first game back after being suspended for three matches following his foolish dismissal against CSKA Moscow. “I always say that we can play without Yaya but if you ask me I prefer to have Yaya in my team,” has been Pellegrini’s stock response to the inevitable Yaya question. But he sounds increasingly unconvincing in stating it these days.
Touré was sent off for violent conduct against CSKA Moscow
It was after Touré had gone that Agüero missed the spot-kick which might just have turned the dynamics of this tie when otherwise Barcelona should have racked up half a dozen goals as they embarrassed Kompany and co and Pellegrini also.
This felt like one of those occasions that marks the end of something. It will be far easier said than done to break up this City team, the contracts the players are on prohibits that, but changes will be made. They have to be.
• Five things we learned: Messi too good for Premier League • Match report: Hart brilliance in vain as Barca march on • Barcelona vs Manchester City – the key match stats • Pellegrini: I'm not a failure – blame the fixture list
City are now entering into a period of renewal which will probably begin with the apparently inevitable: a change of manager. For if City’s big-names failed to deliver last night then so did Pellegrini who got his tactics and personnel wrong. He did not deploy City in a 4-4-2, thankfully, but neither did he form a midfielder partnership that could cope either.
Gary Neville, the former Manchester United defender, branded Touré a 'liability'
So Touré was used alongside Fernandinho in one of the 'two’ behind the attacking trio in a 4-2-3-1 line-up which drew the inevitable fear that they would be over-run. They were. Beyond that Touré was never going to have the energy and discipline to cover defensively and supplement the attack from that position – although he did it once in almost setting up James Milner.
From the commentary box high in the Nou Camp he was skewered by Gary Neville who labelled him a “liability” in that deeper role.
Pellegrini changed things as he re-jigged his midfield in the second-half but by then damage had been done. Barcelona had increased their advantage and Touré was as culpable as Kompany even if there was the mitigation that they were undone by Lionel Messi’s brilliance.
But that did not mean that Kompany, unsure and struggling, needed to be drawn to the ball or that Touré simply gave up tracking back to follow Ivan Rakitic who was given time and space to beat Joe Hart who otherwise produced an astonishingly defiant display to keep the scoreline to an incredibly narrow result given Barcelona’s dominance.

Touré was certainly better once he was pushed further forward and it was from his clever pass that substitute Jesús Navas was able to run into the penalty area to create one chance. Soon after Touré burst down the right but was unable to move away from Jordi Alba and tumbled to the turf as the ball ran away from him, desperately appealing in vain for a free-kick.
Are City spent also? Touré, at 31, is one of their older players in what is the oldest team in the Premier League. The average age of the squad is 29. The average age of the team last night was 29 and two months. The bench was even older – an average age of 30.
The average age of the Barcelona team was 27 years and five months and that is a crucial difference of almost two years younger. It showed.
Age is overtaking City. What is the next manoeuvre for Touré? With two years left on his contract it will be difficult to move him on but that may need to happen for the blood-letting to begin.
