http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568808/s/44760dad/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cmanchester0Eunited0C114762220CMan0EUtd0Enews0EMichael0ECarrick0Eeyes0ELiverpool0Eand0Esays0Eclub0Ecan0Eleapfrog0ECity0Eand0Eseal0EChampions0ELeague0Espot0Bhtml/story01.htm
Man Utd news: Michael Carrick eyes Liverpool and says club can leapfrog City and seal Champions League spot
By Mark Ogden, Northern Football Correspondent
10:30PM GMT 16 Mar 2015
Comments
Michael Carrick has claimed that Manchester United can overhaul Manchester City and target runners-up spot in the Premier League if they emerge unbeaten from the trip to Liverpool on Sunday.
With City enduring their fifth Premier League defeat of the season at Burnley on Saturday, United moved to within two points of the Premier League champions with a 3-0 victory at Old Trafford against Tottenham 24 hours later.

Arsenal’s recent surge up the table has seen them move into third, a point adrift of City, to intensify the battle for Champions League qualification with United and Liverpool. But with City losing five of their last 10 games in all competitions, Carrick believes that Louis van Gaal’s team can now look to finish second behind Chelsea rather than focus solely on securing a top-four spot.
“We have got to aim for that [second] because we are within touching distance now,” Carrick said. “You look at the table now and it is so tight. But I suppose we’ve really just got to look to next Sunday and the game at Liverpool. It is a big game for a lot of reasons and that is probably all we can focus on at the moment.”
United tore Liverpool apart at Old Trafford in December, beating them 3-0, but the Merseysiders have enjoyed a renaissance since the turn of the year Photo: GETTY IMAGES
With United facing fixtures against Liverpool, City, Arsenal and Chelsea during their final nine games, the team’s fate rests in their own hands.
Carrick believes that United’s experience of dealing with the pressure of title run-ins can prove crucial in their bid to secure their first objective of Champions League qualification.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Did you know Telegraph Sport has a ?

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
“For this club, the Champions League is the place to be isn’t it?” the United midfielder said. “We had been in it for so long and not being involved on the big nights this season makes you realise what it is all about.
“We know there are going to be ups and downs because that is how it is, especially in the last nine or 10 games. But hopefully, when that pressure kicks in and it goes up and up, we can perform even better and we’re going to have to in the weeks to come.”
United certainly punched their weight when Spurs visited Old Trafford at the weekend Photo: REX FEATURES
United’s victory against Tottenham was a result of the team’s best performance under Van Gaal, who succeeded the sacked David Moyes as manager last summer. Carrick believes that the manner of the win offered proof that the team is making progress under the Dutchman.
“The players are behind him of course,” Carrick said. “It is just that results prove everything don’t they? We can improve on the training pitch, we can get better there, but it is all about what we do on game day really. And against Spurs, it was probably a big step for us in terms of the size of the game and, to play like we did, it will give everyone a big boost and big shot of confidence.
“It shows we are moving in the right direction which is good, but it is no good settling for that. We still need to keep on that upward curve.”
