http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/669313/s/44885f6f/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cchelsea0Ctransfers0C11480A3120CChelsea0Etransfer0Enews0EJose0EMourinho0Etold0EFFP0Ecash0Eboost0Ecould0Eallow0Ehim0Eto0Esign0Ea0Esuperstar0Bhtml/story01.htm
Chelsea transfer news: Jose Mourinho told FFP cash boost could allow him to sign a superstar
By Matt Law
2:10PM GMT 18 Mar 2015
Comments
Jose Mourinho has the green light to spend big as Chelsea will have access to over £40million in extra Financial Fair Play cash this summer.
Chelsea manager Mourinho is free to throw off some of the shackles of the one in, one out policy he has operated under since returning to Stamford Bridge thanks to the £200m Yokohama shirt sponsorship, the fact Fernando Torres will no longer be a financial burden on the club and Eden Hazard’s new contract.
• Chelsea complain of 'abnormally low' penalty tally - in article on their official website
While £40m may not seem like a huge figure in comparison to what clubs pay on transfer fees, it is extremely significant in terms of FFP costs.
Mourinho could comfortably afford to buy Juventus midfielder Paul Pogba under Uefa regulations, while an extra £40m in FFP leeway would account for just over 75 per cent of the freedom a club would need to sign Barcelona star Lionel Messi.
Jose Mourinho will have the financial might to sign top players this summer
Torres has hit Chelsea for just over £18m-a-year in FFP costs and this summer is the first in which the Blues can budget for not having the Spaniard on the books.
The permanent move to AC Milan that allowed Torres to join Atletico Madrid on loan saw Chelsea accept an £18.72m Financial Fair Play hit on the striker this season in order for him to be wiped off next season’s books.
Financial Fair Play accounting dictates that players are valued annually, which is calculated by adding the amortised transfer fee to the annual wage.
Chelsea paid Liverpool £51.5m for Torres in January 2011 and handed him a five-and-a-half-year contract worth £175,000-a-week. That means, in terms of FFP, his fee was amortised to £9.36m a year, plus £9.1m a year in wages – making his annual cost £18.46m.
Once a player is sold, even if there is no fee involved, his entire ‘book value’ is calculated within FFP accounting. When AC Milan made the Torres move permanent, the £9.36m that would have been applied to the 2015/16 books reverted to this season’s accounts – meaning his total cost this year was £18.72m as Chelsea were no longer paying his wages.
As explained to Telegraph Sport by Jake Cohen of LawInSport, Chelsea have also saved themselves money on FFP by handing Eden Hazard a new contract, even though they have increased his wages to £200,000-a-week.
Eden Hazard's new contract gives Chelsea some financial wriggle room
Hazard’s annual FFP cost after joining Chelsea from Lille was £16.02m, but that figure will go down to £13.31m from this summer due to the fact his remaining book value is now spread over the next five-and-a-half years.
“It is not widely known outside football accounting that clubs can actually save themselves money in terms of FFP costs by giving their players new contracts, even if they are earning more,” said Cohen.
“Although Hazard’s wages have increased from approximately £9.62m a year to £10.4m annually, his FFP ‘book’ value has gone down. That’s because his £32m fee was amortised at £6.4m a year over an initial five-year contract.
"That deal had two-and-a-half years left to run, so the remaining £16m in ‘book’ value was spread out over the new five-and-a-half-year contract Hazard signed in February, decreasing his annual FFP cost from £6.4m to £2.91m.
"So even with the increase in wages, Hazard will cost Chelsea £2.71m less a year in FFP money from this summer.”
The Yokohama shirt sponsorship that was signed at the end of last month is worth around £40m-a-year, which is £22m-a-year more than Chelsea have been receiving from Samsung.
Even without factoring in any further player sales, new contracts, commercial revenue or the increase in television money for Premier League and Champions League clubs, Chelsea have already freed up more than £40m in FFP cash through Torres, Yokohama and Hazard’s new contract.
Jose Mourinho had previously said that Chelsea could not afford Lionel Messi
Mourinho has claimed Chelsea cannot afford to sign Messi, who is best friends with midfielder Cesc Fabregas and was in London last week, even though Chelsea could potentially find the money to meet the Argentine’s FFP costs.
Messi’s Barca buy-out clause is set at £180m (250m euros) and over a five-year contract that fee would be amortised to £36m a year in terms of FFP. The 27-year-old’s annual wage at Barca is £16.3m, making his total annual FFP cost £52.3m.

Chelsea could sign Pogba without any FFP problems. The player’s agent has set his value at £74m and the former Manchester United youngster would no doubt want parity with Hazard’s £200,000-a-week wages, meaning Pogba’s annual FFP cost over a five-year contract would be £25.2m.
Mourinho has operated with a smaller group of senior players to pick from than his Premier League and European rivals over the past two seasons to meet FFP regulations, but can now boost Chelsea’s first-team squad without having to make major sales.
“There is no doubt Chelsea have the freedom to spend big money this summer,” said Cohen. “Unlike the last two years, Jose Mourinho does not have to rely heavily of significant player sales to fund incoming transfers and meet FFP rules.”
