http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568342/s/44ac9d6f/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cmanchester0Eunited0C114886350CJuan0EMata0Eproves0Ehe0Ecan0Ebe0Ethe0Efree0Espirit0EManchester0EUnited0Ehave0Ecraved0Bhtml/story01.htm
Juan Mata proves he can be the free spirit Manchester United have craved
By Paul Hayward, Chief Sports Writer
5:30PM GMT 22 Mar 2015
Comments
Juan Mata arrived at Manchester United’s training ground in January last year in a helicopter. He wore a smart jacket with a silk handkerchief tucked in the breast pocket and looked every inch the Spanish aristocrat. His £37m fee broke United’s transfer record. Then it all went quiet.
Mata is a player the experts whisper about. But here at Anfield everyone was shouting about him instead as he restored the fantasy to United’s sometimes stodgy play. A lot will be written about the value of United’s 2-1 victory in a stadium where they seldom shine these days. The authoritative nature of their first-half display will feature a lot. But Mata’s creativity writes a more important headline, because it revived qualities United have let go of since Sir Alex Ferguson retired.
• Liverpool v Manchester United: as it happened • Steven Gerrard apologises for Herrera stamp • Chris Bascombe's match report from Anfield • Five things we learned from Anfield
Both goals belonged to Mata. The first was a sharp finish from a beautiful through ball by Ander Herrera, his fellow Spaniard. The second was even better. A rugby-style chip ahead by Angel di Maria – another struggling star – tempted Mata into an airborne, left-foot scissor kick which flew past Simon Mignolet. The delight in his face suggested a further lifting of his burden.
Expert finish: Juan Mata shoots United ahead at Anfield
What did the experts whisper? That Mata slows the play down too much; that his natural inclination is to not track back; that he is a luxury player discarded by Chelsea and foisted on United at a time when David Moyes was desperate for a boost. Moyes called him the “first of many” A-list players he would bring through the Old Trafford doors. Instead, Mata looked lost in a sinking side and appeared not to impress Louis van Gaal when the Moyes regime collapsed.
Not nice to have the manager who signed you sacked four months later. Not nice to be called an expensive flop or singled out as a ‘bad buy’ Van Gaal might seek to purge.
Here, Manchester United’s manager denied having doubts about his artistic No 8 but was not fully convincing. On television, after the match, he said: "Normally I don't want to say it - but he was very good.”
Later Van Gaal elaborated. “Juan Mata is always one of my better players,” he said. “We have to play like a team and you have to play in positions so you look like a team. Now, he is playing as a fast right winger and the combination with him and Herrera gives him more opportunities.”
Translated, Van Gaal appeared to be saying there is no room for a free-spirit unless he fits the needs of the team. “He was one of my constantly-playing players – even earlier in the season,” the manager said. “So I’m not amazed - but I am pleased.”

But in truth Mata has had to force his way into Van Gaal’s reckoning. In a dazzling first half against Liverpool he played faster, with more intent. His feet worked quicker and he flashed into spaces rather than simply gliding there. More urgency accentuates his talent. And a £37m fee transfer conveys no divine right to go on playing the way you would like to when the boss is demanding something else.
Before Di Maria arrived for £59m, Mata was United’s most expensive buy. Contrary to popular opinion, Jose Mourinho did not develop a low opinion of him. David Luiz was the only player Mourinho was fully content to let go. Mata’s sole error was to spend longer on the ball than Mourinho would have liked. But he was sold because Chelsea were over-blessed in that department, and because United were becoming desperate, thus raising the price.

The greater joy for United’s fans was that they won this game not with “philosophy” but creativity. It was not just another case of everyone knowing their jobs and Van Gaal peppering his clipboard with ticks. Quite the opposite. United’s second-half play was complacent and sloppy in places and allowed Liverpool back into the game, Steven Gerrard’s 38-second cameo notwithstanding. In Van Gaal-speak: “Running with the ball, unnecessary losses of the ball.”
United have risen without trace to be only two points behind Manchester City, the Premier League’s second-placed team. Their modus operandi was slow, lumpy play and a lot of late goals. They looked like a team desperately trying to give a new manager what he wanted (and trying to work out what that was.) Against Spurs, though, there were flashes of confidence and fluency. Spring had sprung.
Watch the ball: Juan Mata sees his second goal fly in
What made Mata’s two goals so pleasing is that they were both crafted and then finished beautifully. Herrera is another to have drifted in and out of Van Gaal’s affections but his long flat pass between two Liverpool defenders for Mata’s first was a peach. United’s fans have been conditioned to expect this kind of daring football. When Moyes ran into trouble, nobody could find the cupboard where United’s attacking tradition had been accidentally locked. To Van Gaal, entertaining the crowds has been much less important than restoring balance and ball retention.
Yet no goal this term will be remembered more fondly by United’s fans than Mata’s bicycle kick, which was preceded by Di Maria’s chip. Here was £100m of talent combining to finish Liverpool off and complete the league double over United’s enemy for only the second time in seven seasons.
Did you know Telegraph Sport has a ?

Di Maria had started on the bench, along with Radamel Falcao, who has also fallen short. But Mata, 26, who has doubtless always seen himself as a No 10 in a golden age for such Spanish maestros, was determined to bag the role of chief creator.
United’s run of form is impressive enough, statistically, but it lacked a bit of beauty, a touch of devil. Mata, who, amazingly, has scored 14 times in his last 32 appearances, has changed that, and now United are strongly fancied to return to the Champions League.
