http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/669313/s/443ec7ab/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cchelsea0C114627160CChelsea0Ev0EPSG0ELaurent0EBlanc0Ewarns0EDavid0ELuiz0Eand0Ehis0Eother0Edefenders0Enot0Eto0Elet0EDiego0ECosta0Ewind0Ethem0Eup0Bhtml/story01.htm
Chelsea v PSG: Laurent Blanc warns David Luiz and his other defenders not to let Diego Costa wind them up
By Matt Law
6:46PM GMT 10 Mar 2015
Comments
• Laurent Blanc to gamble his PSG future on an all-Brazilian back four
Laurent Blanc has warned David Luiz and his Paris Saint-Germain defenders not to let Chelsea striker Diego Costa wind them up.
PSG manager Blanc watched Chelsea’s Capital One Cup final victory over Tottenham Hotspur and is ready for Costa to try to upset his players.
Former Chelsea man Luiz is expected to be part of the PSG defence and Blanc said: “Costa’s a boy who loves the contact, loves the duels and is very suited to the English game. He likes the challenge, the contact, and provoking opposition players. That's something he needs. He thrives off that.
Diego Costa is known for clashing with opposition defenders (DIGITAL SOUTH)
“It's important not to get caught up in that. I watched the game against Tottenham and, right from the start, he was looking to do that. So the centre-backs playing around him have to be effective in stopping him. He's got good physicality, is technically good, but he tries to provoke a reaction. Always. Away from home, we have to be as effective as possible in trying to stop him.”
PSG must score at Stamford Bridge, following the 1-1 first-leg draw in Paris. Last season, PSG took a 3-1 lead to Chelsea in the quarter-finals of the Champions League, but were eliminated on away goals.
Striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic missed last season’s second leg through injury and Blanc believes the addition of the Swede and Luiz gives PSG a big boost this time around.
“It's true that, in David Luiz and Zlatan Ibrahimovic, we have two players who bring a lot to us in the Champions League,” said Blanc. “You don't buy that experience in a supermarket.
Marquinhos will be asked to shackle Eden Hazard as he sought to here during the first leg (GETTY IMAGES)
“Champions League experience is something you acquire over time with games. Sometimes you acquire it by losing games, only to win others going forward.
“With Zlatan, whoever plays at centre-back – Kurt Zouma or Gary Cahill – the good news for PSG is Zlatan will play. Neither will be happy to face him. He's someone who loves the big occasion and can score at any time against any opponent. He'll be a very important player for us.
Did you know Telegraph Sport has a ?

“We just prepare normally. Maybe you go into greater detail than for other games, but this is an opponent we know better than last year.
“To progress, you need experience. PSG have more experience, the players do and I do, but we're still off what Chelsea have in terms of experience. They took a while to get where they are and invested heavily. It takes time to become one of the top five or six sides in Europe. That is the process PSG have embarked upon.
Laurent Blanc knows his team come into the match as underdogs (GETTY IMAGES)
“Chelsea have a slight advantage with the away goal, so our aim is to do what Chelsea did in Paris and get through. We'll prepare well. We know what we will be going to do. Chelsea have to work out a balance between attacking and defending. That's their problem. But we know we have to score at least one goal to qualify.”
PSG players will wear black armbands at Stamford Bridge after three French sports personalities, yachtswoman Florence Arthaud, Olympic swimmer Camille Muffat and Olympic boxer Alexis Vastine, were among those killed in a collision between two helicopters in Argentina.
Blanc said: “I am here as a representative of Paris Saint-Germain. I'd just like to say on behalf of the players and staff that we express our sincere condolences to the families of the people who lost their lives in the helicopter accident in Argentina.
“The whole of French sport is in mourning this afternoon. I knew some of them personally. We will be wearing black armbands on our right arms in tomorrow night's game.”
