http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/669313/s/441c8d46/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Carsenal0C114545170CArsene0EWenger0Esays0Ebuilding0Ewalls0Ebetween0Emanagers0Eis0Eonly0Eway0Eto0Eend0Etouchline0Espats0Bhtml/story01.htm
Arsene Wenger says building walls between managers is only way to end touchline spats
By Matt Law, Football News Correspondent
12:57PM GMT 06 Mar 2015
Comments
Arsène Wenger has claimed that the only way to stop Premier League managers clashing on the touchline would be to build a wall between them.
The behaviour of managers was again highlighted this week, when Sunderland's Gus Poyet was sent to the stands and Hull City’s Steve Bruce had to be restrained by the fourth official.
Poyet has been charged by the Football Association with improper conduct, while Bruce has been reminded in writing of his responsibilities.
Wenger himself was involved in a touchline spat this season, when he shoved Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho during Arsenal’s defeat at Stamford Bridge in October.
“Ideally, you want us to behave in a perfect way so maybe you’ll have to build a wall between the two dug-outs!,” said the Arsenal manager Wenger. “The bigger the distance, the better it is. In the modern stadium it is much better.
Welbeck is no better off at Arsenal than United
'Lazy' Ozil runs more than any Arsenal player
Man Utd v Arsenal: match preview
Sanchez back to best - and four other things we learnt
“At the Emirates, for example, we have had zero incidents because we are far apart from each other. What happens when the dug-outs are very close is that everyone speaks to the fourth official and then it becomes controversial very quickly. Because it’s always hyped up, the incidents can explode in physical controversy. Overall, the distance between the two dug-outs is a very important part of the peace.”
Wenger’s Arsenal team travel to Old Trafford to take on Manchester United in the quarter-finals of the FA Cup on Monday night.

Steve Bruce confronts Gustavo Poyet at the KC Stadium (Getty Images)
Former United midfielder Paul Scholes has questioned the attitude of Mesut Özil by claiming the Germany international took the “easy option” by joining Arsenal in a club record £42.5million deal and that the forward has been “going through the motions”.
In response, Wenger said: “I think a player like Paul Scholes would have loved to play with Mesut Özil. I believe about Ozil it’s a wrong statement. He works very hard and he’s a great player.”
Asked if Özil still has a point to prove in an Arsenal shirt, Wenger added: “Yes and he knows that. We are all in a job where in every single game we have to prove a point.
“I believe he has the quality, he puts a lot of effort in to help the team and he works much harder than his style shows. You can be cheated a little bit by his style of play, because he is fluent, easy, subtle and he does not look like he puts the effort in, but he does.”

'Paul Scholes would have loved to play with Mesut Özil' (Getty Images)
Wenger confirmed central defender Gabriel will be out for “two to three weeks” with the hamstring injury he suffered against Queens Park Rangers and revealed goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny will start against United if he has recovered from illness.
