http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568342/s/4470beeb/sc/36/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Ccompetitions0Cpremier0Eleague0C114750A0A0A0CPremier0ELeague0Eweekend0Ereview0EHow0Ecan0EVan0EGaal0Eput0EDi0EMaria0Eback0Ein0Ehis0EMan0EUtd0Estarting0Eline0Eup0Enow0Bhtml/story01.htm
Premier League weekend review - How can Van Gaal put Di Maria back in his Man Utd starting line-up now?
By Telegraph Sport
12:31PM GMT 16 Mar 2015
Comments
Louis van Gaal has built a reputation as a manager who is prepared to make and take tough decisions, but he faces another ahead of Manchester United's trip to Liverpool on Sunday which could see £59.7m British record signing Angel di Maria consigned to the bench at Anfield.
With Di Maria suspended, United produced their best performance of the season to defeat Tottenham Hotspur 3-0 at Old Trafford on Sunday.
Aside from the obvious boost to morale from defeating a rival for Champions League qualification, United's expansive football, orchestrated by Wayne Rooney and Juan Mata, will also ensure that they travel to Merseyside with renewed belief that they can finish in the top four.

But having overpowered and outplayed Spurs without Di Maria, can Van Gaal possibly put him back in the starting line-up against Liverpool?
The Argentine has struggled for form since the turn of the year, but Van Gaal has kept faith with the former Real Madrid winger in an effort to play him through his form slump.
But Mata's performance, in tandem with Ander Herrera, against Spurs will make it difficult for Van Gaal to recall Di Maria.
Striking difference: Stats that show Rooney is better up front


Di Maria's pace, when on form, can be devastating and it is a quality which Mata does not possess.
But Mata's use of the ball is much tidier than Di Maria's, so Van Gaal must decide whether to stick with a player in form or gamble on one searching for his.
The Dutchman can, of course, accommodate both players, but he would be forced to drop Marouane Fellaini to play Mata and Di Maria.
Marouane Fellaini is now a key figure in the United midfield (Reuters)
Fellaini's qualities are totally different to those of Mata and Di Maria, but with Blackburn's Rudy Gestede tormenting Liverpool's defence in the FA Cup last week, Van Gaal is unlikely to risk taking the battering ram out of his armoury at Anfield.
So it looks like a choice between Mata and Di Maria and, on the evidence of the Spurs game, Mata should get the nod. - Mark Ogden
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ALTERNATIVE ANALYSIS
Some call it expert vision, others call it a wasted chance

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Wenger must start with Ramsey and Cazorla against Monaco
There is one big obvious dilemma that Arsène Wenger faces in Monaco tomorrow night. Santi Cazorla has been a revelation in central midfield alongside Francis Coquelin over recent months but he was rested on Saturday and, in his place, Aaron Ramsey seized his chance.
Not only did he score his first goal of 2015 but delivered the sort of attacking-midfield performance that prompted legitimate comparison last season with Frank Lampard at his best. With Coquelin's presence so vital to maintaining a defensive balance, it would appear to be a straight choice alongside him between Ramsey and Cazorla. It is a finely balanced decision but there is surely no way that Cazorla will be relegated to the bench after being specifically rested on Saturday.
Aaron Ramsey is one of the best midfielders in the country (PA)
Wenger will also want to handle Ramsey with care after recent injuries yet the best solution would surely be to reorganise others so that both can start. Theo Walcott had something of a nightmare with his finishing on Saturday and, with Monaco again certain to sit deep and look to pounce on the counter-attack, his pace is likely to be less useful. The best solution, then, would be to start Ramsey in midfield and push Cazorla further forward into one of the wide positions.
Walcott, as well as Danny Welbeck, could still play an important part from the bench but the likelihood tomorrow is that Arsenal will be given virtually no space behind Monaco and will be required to pass their way through the opposition.
Did you know Telegraph Sport has an ?

Ramsey's late runs from deep and Cazorla's technical skill could be invaluable. With the industry of Cazorla and Alexis Sanchez in front of them, Wenger would also then have more freedom to start with Kieran Gibbs and Hector Bellerin at full-back. He may even be tempted to risk leaving Coquelin out completely but that would surely be a mistake against a team with such potency on the counter-attack.
My team to face Monaco: Ospina; Bellerin, Mertesacker, Koscielny, Gibbs; Coquelin, Ramsey; Sanchez, Ozil, Cazorla; Giroud. - Jeremy Wilson
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PICTURE OF THE WEEK
Arsenal fans, perhaps tired of waiting for a league title, sleep at the Emirates
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
QPR have spent millions - and blown it!
Since winning promotion to the Premier League in 2011, Queens Park Rangers have signed 49 new players at a cost of over £100 million, plus at least £15 million in agents' fees. The price of season tickets has gone up by more than 50 per cent. As they slide ever closer to a second relegation, their fans are entitled to ask: where did all the money go?
QPR fans are entitled to ask: where has all the money gone? (Rex Features)
If QPR go down - and they're four points adrift of safety with Chelsea, Liverpool and Manchester City still to play - then don't blame new coach Chris Ramsey. Blame the years of chronic mismanagement and fatal short-term thinking that have left him a directionless, unbalanced squad with plenty of unreliable wingers but not a single fit right-back.
Running a football club is evidently harder than it looks. But the Tony Fernandes era at QPR increasingly looks like one of the most most inept regimes in Premier League history. They had history, goodwill, a prime London location, fiercely loyal fans and hundreds of millions of pounds to burn. And again, they've blown it. - Jonathan Liew
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Black Cats may pay ultimate price for Poyet loyalty
Sunderland have tried to be loyal to Gus Poyet. They have tried to implement long term plans, they have tried to stop the perpetuation of the 'new manager every 18 months' cycle.
They wanted to give Poyet a chance to build something that would lead to sustainable improvement in the Premier League and finally end the constant relegation battles. And now they may well pay the ultimate price.
Sunderland have never really looked in relegation trouble this season and that is why they could fall through the trap door. They have left the managerial change so late that there is no obvious candidate to replace Poyet. Certainly no-one that guarantees results will improve.
If, as expected, Sunderland sack Poyet this week, they are going to appoint someone on a nine-game basis in the desperate hope he can keep them up.
Sunderland fans show their discontent by leaving before half-time (Getty Images)
It is the ultimate gamble inspired by panic, but 4-0 home defeats by one of the few teams below you in the table will do that to even the calmest football club owner - and Ellis Short isn't a laidback sort of guy.
This will be his seventh manager in six years at the Stadium of Light and while the team's form under Poyet has been poor, getting rid of him now is a final fling of the dice based on nothing more than a hunch. It is a game of chance.
It has worked before when Short sacked Martin O'Neil and brought in Paolo Di Canio, although the former would surely have got the two wins his Italian predecessor managed in the remaining seven games that season.
Tony Pulis would have been great for Sunderland, but some supporters stupidly think they are too good for a manager like that - pride that may lead to the ultimate fall.

Pulis would have come to the North East, but the board were reluctant to appoint him because of the perception he played a style of football the fans wouldn't like, firstly when Di Canio was sacked last season and again when the first serious doubts about Poyet gained a foothold in the boardroom before Christmas.
Tim Sherwood was snapped up by Villa last month and he has led the Midlands clubs to three successive wins and an FA Cup semi-final at Wembley.
Poyet had created a well-organised, difficult team to beat and with the signing of Jermain Defoe in January he appeared to have found the answer to the team's goalscoring problems. Things, though, have got worse, not better. The Sunderland hierarchy couldn't take anymore.
Unlike last season when they only escaped in the last few weeks of the campaign, the Black Cats have not been in the bottom three all season. They could well drop into the relegation zone next weekend if they lose away at West Ham against the manager Short would like to come to the Stadium of Light in the summer, Sam Allardyce.
Whoever comes in is going to have to pull off the same "miracle" Poyet did 12 months ago. It is a huge ask and hardly the most attractive job in the country when they know their position will be reviewed in the summer, regardless of whether they keep Sunderland in the top flight or not. - Luke Edwards
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
READER OF THE WEEK

In an admirable attempt to get children with literacy problems reading, Joey Barton told the National Literary Trust that his favourite book is The Republic by Plato. It’s interesting to note that Joey Barton’s favourite book is one written by a Greek philosopher in 380BC questioning the true nature of justice; perhaps it is the thinking this particular literacy work encourages that he actually enjoys.
Then again, there is a fair likelihood Joey Barton has developed a deeper understanding of Plato’s theories on the justice system than most readers, seeing as he has several first hand experiences of this complicated philosophical ideal to draw from.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHEAT OF THE WEEK
While certain teams attempted to influence the referee in certain Champions League matches last week, in Ecuador a goalkeeper tried out an innovative technique to avoid a certain red card.
Having fouled an opponent while clean through on goal, Maximo Banguera, 27 caps for Ecuador, pretended to be unconscious in an attempt to prevent the referee from sending him off. It didn't work. After a minute-and-a-half of simulated sleep, Banguera miraculously rose to his feet and was ordered off the pitch.
Maximo Banguera pretends to be unconscious (AP)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Award for the best Premier League DJ? Burnley
There are two reasons Burnley deserve to stay in the Premier League.
One, their manager Sean Dyche has organised a team of (broadly) Championship-quality players and made them greater than the sum of their parts.
Two, they get the blood of the supporters stirring with an impressive pre-match track list.
Don't underestimate the importance of a good tune for those of who take our seats 30 minutes before kick-off. United and City have been getting it right for years, celebrating the musical heritage of their city with tub-thumping tunes that can turn the most sedate atmosphere into a carnival of sound.

It is with a degree of envy I note how the Manchester clubs focus entirely on their local bands' extensive back-catalogue, and bemusement that neither Liverpool or Everton adopt the same exclusivity policy given the last 50 years of musical culture in this country.
At Anfield they've even stopped playing 'You'll Never Walk Alone' at the right time (just after the teams are announced during the club's heyday, but now moved to accommodate the Premier League anthem) while instead of the much longed for Revolution by The Beatles, we're often treated to the noise pollution of what is best described as a car alarm as we wait for the teams to take to the pitch.
So well done Burnley for the musical quality control at Turf Moor, players emerging from the tunnel to the sound of Arcade Fire's 'Wake Up'. The omission of Burnley's finest 'The Milltown Brothers' was the only disappointment. - Chris Bascombe
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NUMBER OF THE WEEK
53 - The age that Andrea Pirlo can play until according to former team-mate Mauro Camoranesi.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MADE UP NUMBER
32919 - The number of goals Lionel Messi looks set to end the La Liga season with after grabbing another two against Eibar.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
What has it come to when a manager can't swear at a press conference?
Nigel Pearson is back in the headlines again after another uncomfortable confrontation, this time with a journalist after Saturday's 0-0 draw with Hull City.
Pearson's charge sheet is growing lengthier with each passing month, following the ill-advised riposte to a fan and then the remarkable 'strangling' of Crystal Palace midfielder James McArthur.
This latest regrettable incident has cranked up further pressure on the Leicester City manager, whose team are bottom of the Premier League and heading inexorably towards likely relegation.
Nigel Pearson appeared to strangle James McArthur
But for once, perhaps this occasion requires some context, a response to the moral outrage which has flooded social media since the video was first uploaded late on Saturday night.
This is not intended to defend Pearson, who should have not risen to the bait and would struggle to count the names of close friends in the media on one hand.
But has our industry really sunk to such levels that a manager swearing in response to deliberately provocative questions creates such levels of controversy?
Post-match press conferences can often be emotional and tense, especially when the stakes are so high. The room was supposed to contain journalists but nowadays it seems anyone with a camera can obtain accreditation, not ask any questions, and then upload videos to the internet within minutes.

Before the Premier League became even more extravagant, a manager swearing at a journalist would have been commonplace. I remember a briefing with Jose Mourinho after a game in the Midlands a few years back when he completely lost it, spewing a stream of 'f' words to a question about the ineffectiveness of his forwards.
But no journalist present (and there were no cameras on this occasion) felt the need to make a big deal of it or complain about Mourinho's bad language.
I found it compelling and also felt privileged to have been in a position to see one of the world's best managers momentarily lose the plot, but maybe that's just me.
Pearson was wrong to respond and should have known better. Considering the other episodes this season, it was the last thing he needed. But swearing at a journalist? Come on. It's hardly the crime of the century. - John Percy
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
IT'S A KNOCK-OUT Wayne Rooney

Wayne Rooney's televised boxing debut against Phil Bardsley didn't end the way he probably would have liked, as Sunderland player Bardsley left him sparked out on his own kitchen floor. Rooney recovered in time to deliver the knock-out blow to Spurs in United's victory.
