http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568342/s/4469be9d/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cmanchester0Eunited0C114737820CWayne0ERooney0Erallies0EManchester0EUnited0Eto0Evictory0Ewith0Einspirational0Epre0Ematch0Espeech0Bhtml/story01.htm
Wayne Rooney rallies Manchester United to victory with inspirational pre-match speech
By Mark Ogden, at Old Trafford
7:53PM GMT 15 Mar 2015
Comments
Louis van Gaal claimed a pre-match speech by Wayne Rooney proved key to Manchester United’s 3-0 victory over Tottenham after the England captain delivered his best performance of the season in response to publication of a video showing him knocked to the floor in a boxing bout in his kitchen.
With footage of Rooney being floored by Stoke full-back, and former United team-mate Phil Bardsley, being revealed by The Sun on Sunday morning, the 29-year-old went into the game facing questions over his off-field behaviour.
Rooney, who scored United’s third goal before celebrating by pretending to be knocked to the ground, insisted he had been ‘focused on the game’ when asked whether the revelations had been a distraction.
United manager Van Gaal also rejected questions on the matter as ‘ridiculous.’

Louis van Gaal salutes Old Trafford (PA)
But with United’s pursuit of Champions League qualification now their only remaining objective this season, Van Gaal confirmed that Rooney’s decision to hold a players’ meeting in the team hotel on Saturday evening, in which he delivered what Marouane Fellaini described as a ‘very important speech,’ proved the captain’s leadership qualities.
“Do you think I am not aware of that (meeting)?” Van Gaal said. “I was aware of that, but I am not in the meeting because the captain has his own privileges.
“Of course, also the players know this game was of massive importance, so I think a captain has to do something to help the players or help the manager or help the club. I was very pleased.
• Wayne Rooney celebrates goal with boxing knockout routine • Manchester United 3 Tottenham 0: Five things we learnt • Manchester United 3 Tottenham 0: match report • Rooney should have had MRI scan
“We have waited a long time for such a victory, so maybe because the performance was very good against a very good team, I am more pleased.”
Rooney’s contribution, in front of the watching England manager Roy Hodgson, emphasised his importance to club and country, particularly in the attacking position to which he has been restored by Van Gaal in recent weeks.
But when asked about the emergence of details about the incident with Bardsley, Rooney admitted his disappointment that a ‘private’ matter had been made public.

“That's the world we live in today,” Rooney said. “It was a few mates in a private house, which has somehow managed to get on the front page of a national newspaper.
"I have to accept that, but it was me and a few friends joking around.
“I've just been focused on the game, it's more interesting for other people rather than for myself.
“But you’ve seen today, I've done a professional job, got on with the game and gladly helped my team win 3-0.
“I know it's got out but it's not public. It's what friends do - they mess around in the house and unfortunately it has made the front page of a national newspaper. I will just deal with it.”
Van Gaal, meanwhile, refused to condemn his captain when asked whether he was concerned that United’s leading goalscorer could have been injured during the sparring with Bardsley.
“I think it is a ridiculous world where we live that I have to answer those questions,” Van Gaal said. “A newspaper paid a lot for a video and I am answering questions about that?
“What is this world, twisted? I don't want to answer questions about such things.”
On the pitch, Rooney’s performance and United’s victory, ahead of Sunday’s trip to Liverpool, renewed belief at Old Trafford that the team can secure a top four finish.
And with Manchester City losing at Burnley on Sunday, Van Gaal insisted the champions have now been dragged back into the Champions League ‘rat race’ with his team now just two points behind.
“Of course, because Arsenal is one point behind City and we are two points behind,” Van Gaal said. “It is good for us and the fans and the media because you can write a lot of things about it.
“We have to go step by step. It is a rat race, we are now two points from the second position, and the next game is Liverpool.
“But today, we played like a team, very determined, and it is nice after a defeat against Arsenal that you can do that in the next game like this, a massive important game.”

Wayne Rooney performs part two of his 'boxing celebration' (AFP)
Defeat for Tottenham left Mauricio Pochettino’s team as outsiders to secure Champions League qualification, but the Argentine insisted Spurs still have a chance to finish in the top four.
“We are in a position where all is possible,” Pochettino said. “It is very difficult because we are competing with five sides like Manchester United.
“But today I am very disappointed with our performance. We don’t deliver the game we play in our normal way. We need to fix that, but we have possibilities.
“The key factor is that we made a lot of mistakes. We never found the way we need to play and damage United.”
