http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568342/s/44686a51/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cfootball0Elive0Eblogs0C114732490CManchester0EUnited0Ev0ETottenham0EHotspur0Elive0Bhtml/story01.htm
Manchester United v Tottenham Hotspur: as it happened
By Adam Hurrey
5:24PM GMT 15 Mar 2015
Email with nominations for other professional footballers you would like to see knocked out

• In pics: Man Utd players nearing the exit door • Van Gaal has 'disrespected' Falcao and Giggs • Have any United players improved under Van Gaal? • Wayne Rooney celebrates goal with boxing knockout routine_
Full time! United's glorious half-hour of verve and purpose did the damage in this match, and Spurs couldn't find a response. United fans will read more into this performance than those from north London, but that's some precious ground lost in the race for the title of Finishing Fourth. That's Louis van Gaal's stated aim, and he'll be more than satisfied this evening. Thanks for reading, and I bid you goodnight.
90 min There will be two more minutes of Adebayor offsides and semi-ambitious Spurs throw-ins.
89 min CHANCE! Harry Kane races through on the right, but his low shot is saved by the legs/groin of De Gea, who looks surprised to find the ball underneath him. That's Tottenham's clearest chance of the match, in its final minute.
87 min Michael Carrick gets his Old Trafford ovation, as Rafael replaces him and United shuffle things about in defence and midfield. Nothing else of note is taking place, I can report.
84 min Christian Eriksen finally locates some space in which to do his work, but his dinked cross is dealt with by Wayne Rooney, of all people. He's put in an excellent shift this afternoon.
82 min Fresh from his high-profile appearance for the reserves, Radamel Falcao will be imminently entering the fray. Maroaune Fellaini, the driving force behind United's quickfire lead in this match, makes way.
79 min And here comes Adebayor, in place of Nacer Chadli. A little over 11 minutes for him to spark a heroic, and hugely unrealistic, Spurs comeback.
77 min Juan Mata comes off to generous applause, to be replaced by 19-year-old, Belgian-born Brazilian Andreas Pereira for his Premier League debut.
75 min A dubious offside flag against Herrera spoils a lovely pass by Carrick. Rooney has the ball in the net, but it remains 3-0. And probably will end up that way. Herrera slams a shot wide.
71 min Crossfield United pass after crossfield United pass is occasionally punctuated by a brief Tottenham break upfield. The hosts aren't in much of a hurry, and the visitors are rapidly losing hope. Danny Rose goes into the book for a foul.
67 min Emmanuel Adebayor has just been spotted embarking on the least enthusiastic warm-up in living memory. Can't say I blame him.
65 min United work the ball tidily over to Daley Blind, whose deep cross is met by Ander Herrera. His shot finds the side-netting.
64 min Ryan Mason's afternoon is over, and Erik Lamela will replace him.
62 min Blind, who's had an excellent game at left-back, threads a delicate ball through the Spurs defence - intended for Ander Herrera - but Lloris is as alert as ever to gather.
59 min Spurs are trying to summon a fightback, but United's well-balanced midfield is shutting the game down currently. There's very little space for anyone to make inroads into the United half.
54 min Ryan Mason sells a dummy to Michael Carrick and cuts onto his right foot, but his shot is dragged wide of De Gea's left-hand post. A brief reminder of Spurs' attacking promise, but they'll need Harry Kane to turn up first.
53 min A Valencia cross falls to Rooney, who tees it up for Daley Blind on the edge of the box, but a flying Spurs body gets in the way.
49 min The ball falls to Rooney - back to goal, 18 yards out - but his volley on the turn sails over the bar.
47 min Obviously, that gung-ho first half means that the remainder of this game will be a mere procession. I'm going for 4-0, but the neutrals deserve more.
46 min Tottenham, guilty of "wishy-washy, tippy-tappy" football in the first half according to Sky's Graeme Souness, have made no further changes beyond Townsend's premature hooking in the first half. We're under way in the second period...
Half-time Rooney tries to round off the first half with a curled effort from the left, but it's well wide. Clattenburg brings the half to a close, Old Trafford shows its appreciation, and Spurs have some thinking to do.
44 min Spurs aren't quite shell-shocked - they're gamely chasing this - but United are playing with the sort of freedom that a 33-minute 3-0 lead tends to give you.
41 min One of the underrated highlights of this match so far has been Chris Smalling's excitable forays into the Spurs half, desperate to join the party, which end in massively overhit passes.
39 min Our man Henry Winter observes:
<noframe>Twitter: Henry Winter - 3-0 <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23mufc" target="_blank">#mufc</a>. The knock-out blow? Great celebration from Rooney, shaping a flurry of punches then falls back over.</noframe>
35 min Incidentally, if this was a boxing match, Spurs would be covering up on the ropes right now. That was a glimpse of The Rooney Of Old - pace, purpose and a decisive finish to round it off.
GOAL! Manchester United 3-0 Tottenham (Rooney, 33 min) Oh my. Nabil Bentaleb gifts the ball to Wayne Rooney, 35 yards from goal, and the United captain marauds through the Spurs defence and fires into the bottom-left corner. His celebration is boxing themed.
32 min Juan Mata, displaying all the pace in his locker, is forced to bring down Ryan Mason as he races away. Booking.
30 min United have been unusually purposeful so far - every pass seems to have an idea behind it. Mauricio Pochettino's had an idea of his own, meanwhile - Mousa Dembele is coming on for Andros Townsend, who hasn't covered himself in defensive glory in that opening half-hour.
27 min Fellaini is released down the left (obviously) and his low cross into the corridor of uncertainty doesn't quite meet the onrushing Juan Mata. United not quite rampant, but certainly have this game under complete control.
25 min Walker's latest attempt to stem the tide results in a free-kick for bundling Young over. Rooney whips it in emphatically, but Walker atones with a headed clearance. Fans on that particular side of the ground are getting their money's worth so far.
23 min It's all coming down Spurs' right-hand side, where Kyle Walker has the Young-Blind coalition forces to deal with. Young drives inside this time, but his cross finds the boot of a Tottenham defender.
21 min Here's the Fellaini finish for United's opener (Lloris's feet-first approach to saving it not pictured):

GOAL! Manchester United 2-0 Tottenham (Carrick, 19 min) Blind's endeavour earns United a corner, which Mata swings outwards. Fellaini's initial header is half-cleared into the path of Michael Carrick, who sends a perfectly-controlled header into the bottom corner. Lloris, and Spurs, were helpless to that one.
15 min United are enjoying most of the possession, and Rooney's movement has been bright so far - Juan Mata is the latest to spot a run into the channel. Spurs yet to get a foothold in this game.
13 min Young and Blind combine on the left, and the latter sends in a cross looking for the head of the buzzing Fellaini. Danny Rose gets there first, to Spurs' relief.
12 min Fellaini now dropping deep and spreading the ball out wide. Are we witnessing the late blooming of an all-round striker?
GOAL! Manchester United 1-0 Tottenham (Fellaini, 9 min) Carrick slips Marouane Fellaini through on his left foot, and his finish is sufficiently precise to evade the dive of Lloris and nestle in the far corner. Not quite in his job description, that, but United will happily take it.
7 min Space already at a premium in the crowded midfield, but there are enough ball-players on both sides to cope. Rooney races down the left, but his pull-back evades both Mata and Herrera for Spurs to clear.
5 min Well put:
<noframe>Twitter: Lauren - Phil Jones isn't an accident waiting to happen. He is an accident happening all the time.</noframe>
3 min Phil Jones' stellar opening few minutes continues, as David de Gea can only knock his overzealous backpass out for a corner. United eventually clear.
2 min A beginner's guide to Phil Jones there, as he miscontrols under mild pressure from Kane, and then thunders into a tackle to make up for it. Ashley Young cuts inside and curls a cross into the arms of Lloris.
1 min Referee Mark Clattenburg gets us off and under way at Old Trafford.
15.56 Here come the teams, led out by Sugar Wayne Rooney and Hugo Lloris...
15.43 United manager Louis van Gaal speaks:
When you lose, you have to react. They have already reacted on the training ground. For us, reaching the Champions League this season is a title.
15.37 Manchester United fan Lauren Gallagher has emailed in, and she has a few concerns:
I know people don't like this saying but this game really is a 6 pointer. The thought of Harry Kane charging at our defence is frightening, I don't think we'll keep a clean sheet today. I've got no idea what the score will be but I'm sure we'll see some Fellaini elbows, incredible De Gea saves & LVG uttering the word "philosophy".
15.33 Afternoon, all. Chelsea and Southampton served up a scrappy entree on Super Sunday, but the main course of Manchester United and Tottenham promises to be a little more palatable. It's Wayne v Kane! De Gea v Lloris! Smalling v Dier! I'm excited.
TEAM NEWS
Manchester United: David de Gea, Ashley Young, Antonio Valencia, Chris Smalling, Phil Jones, Michael Carrick, Juan Mata, Daley Blind, Ander Herrera, Wayne Rooney, Marouane Fellaini
Subs: Adnan Januzaj, Andreas Pereira, Anders Lindegaard, Falcao, Rafael, Tyler Blackett, James Wilson
Tottenham Hotspur: Hugo Lloris, Danny Rose, Jan Vertonghen, Kyle Walker, Eric Dier, Nabil Bentaleb, Nacer Chadli, Ryan Mason, Andros Townsend, Christian Eriksen, Harry Kane
Subs: Emmanuel Adebayor, Ben Davies, Mousa Dembélé, Michel Vorm, Vlad Chiriches, Erik Lamela, Paulinho
11.30 Adam Hurrey is currently on the other side, enjoying Chelsea v Southampton. When that's taken care of he will zoom into this blog and tell you all about the day's most intriguing match, Manchester United v Spurs at Old Trafford. In the meantime, why not read Jason Burt on Louis Van Gaal, and the future of Angel Di Maria:
Louis Van Gaal has insisted that he expects record-signing Angel Di Maria to remain at Manchester United next season - but would not stand in his way if he wanted to leave on compassionate grounds.
The United manager said, however, that there would have to be a “commercial interest” in any deal that was struck given Di Maria cost £59.7million when he was signed from Real Madrid.
The Argentinean international has struggled for form and adapting to life in this country especially after an attempted burglary on his home which has unsettled his wife. It has led to suggestions that he is unhappy and might move on.
Van Gaal refuted this but explained that he would take a personal approach if Di Maria wanted to leave. “As a manager, you can never say no or yes because the player at the end shall always decide but I don’t think he shall move,” he said. "Despite his incident with his wife at home, he is very pleased to be here at Manchester United.”
Asked whether he would let Di Maria go if he wanted to go for compassionate reasons Van Gaal added: “I’m always like that. When you see my history – that’s part of my philosophy. A player is not just a man who kicks the ball from A to B. Also, his environment is influencing him.
“So, I shall always be open for that conversation but I know also the commercial interests of the club and we have to respect that. You cannot give a lot of money for a player and then next season put him out of your selection.
“I think that he shall stay because what I have seen in his reaction, after the defeat and after his red card (against Arsenal in the FA Cup last Monday), is very good and I like his attitude.”
Approval: Louis van Gaal wants to keep Angel Di Maria at Manchester United
Enjoy the rest right here.
