http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/571333/s/28bbd8f4/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Colympics0Cswimming0C98794230CAustralias0EOlympic0Eswimming0Eteam0Ewas0Ecrippled0Eby0Ea0Etoxic0Eculture0Einvolving0Ebullying0Eaccording0Eto0Ereview0Bhtml/story01.htm
Australia's Olympic swimming team was crippled by a 'toxic culture' involving bullying, according to review
By Jacquelin Magnay
6:05PM GMT 19 Feb 2013
Comments
Australia won 10 medals, including just one gold, their worst performance for 20 years. It led to two separate reviews, the first conducted by business consultants Bluestone, which portrayed a team undermined by schoolboy pranks, inflated egos, a lack of unity and unrealistic expectations. Some team members described London as the “lonely Games”.
“Standards, discipline and accountabilities for the swim team at the London Olympics were too loose,” the Bluestone review said.
“Situations were left to bleed with not enough follow through for fear of disrupting preparation for competition. Although few situations were truly grave in nature, they compounded in significance as no one reigned in control.
"There were enough culturally toxic incidents across enough team members that breeched agreements (such as getting drunk, misuse of prescription drugs, breeching curfews, deceit, bullying) to warrant a strong, collective leadership response. No such collective action was taken.”
Some high-profile members of the team may face further investigation and could even be fined or banned for their behaviour. Some are under suspicion of abusing the sleeping tablet Stilnox, which contains the prescription drug zolpidem, which could constitute a breach of Australian Olympic Committee rules.
'Dopers, we will catch you'
The review uncovered divisions between experienced and inexperienced swimmers in the Australian team, between men and women, and also between the best and the rest.
It said some swimmers engaged in bonding ceremonies involving sleeping pills, waking team-mates at night, and even putting shaved hair into team members’ bedding and kit bags.
The report was scathing about the lack of leadership within the team.
Several senior executives have already left Swimming Australia in the wake of London.
“Poor behaviour and disrespect within the team were not regulated or resisted strongly by other team members, ” the report said.
The new president of Swimming Australia, Barclay Nettlefold, said yesterday he would establish an integrity panel to investigate the incidents, identify the culprits and hand down penalties which could comprise a warning, fines or bans.
The Australian Sports Commission published a second review, although both investigations failed to specifically identify any swimmers who had broken rules or misbehaved.
