http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569303/s/43d5fc17/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0C11438520A0CBiggest0Eshirt0Esponsorship0Edeals0Ein0Efootball0Bhtml/story01.htm
Biggest shirt sponsorship deals in football
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569303/s/43d423e0/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cfootball0Elive0Eblogs0C1143770A50CFiorentina0Ev0ETottenham0EHotspur0EEuropa0ELeague0Elive0Bhtml/story01.htm
Fiorentina vs Tottenham Hotspur, Europa League: as it happened
By Giles Mole
7:52PM GMT 26 Feb 2015
- Premier League's most expensive vs bargain XI - Why Greaves won't be at Capital One Cup final - Live football on TV: Your guide to all the action

Result: Fiorentina 2-0 Tottenham (3-1 on aggregate)
93 min And it's all over! Fiorentina march on into the last 16 as Spurs are knocked out of the Europa League.
92 min 'Ole' rings out around the stadium as Fiorentina play keep ball.
Soldado howler puts the seal on Spurs' misery
90 min We're into time added on - three minutes.
88 min With three players further forward in better positions, Townsend decides to have a pop from 30 yards out and it's ugly - wide, very wide. Just about sums up Spurs' night really.
86 min Spurs have a free-kick out on the right and Townsend is over it. The England international whips a fine ball in... and Soldado is first to it... but his flick-on header sails agonisingly over the bar.
85 min Eriksen forces Neto into a fine save, low to his left. That's the best chance Spurs have had for a while.
84 min Even by Kane standards this would be some salvage operation if he could score a brace, but Fiorentina have clearly done their homework on the striker as he's hassled off the ball whenever it lands at his feet.
82 min Joaquin tries to do a Salah and almost manages it befoe tripping over his own feet and Spurs clear.
80 min Salah is on fire out there as he runs at the Spurs defence from the halfway line to the edge of the Tottenham area and only a clumsy-looking but effective tackle by Chiriches prevents him from running through on Lloris.
76 min Kane has the ball in the net... but he's offside. In fact, two Spurs players were offside.
74 min Tottenham can draw on the fact they came back from 2-0 down against West Ham at the weekend with even less time remaining so all hope is not lost yet. Walker comes on for Vertonghen for the last quarter of an hour.
GOAL! Fiorentina 2 Tottenham 0 (Salah 70 min) - Salah accepts a delightful one-two and then beats Vertonghen and Chiriches to the ball before toe-poking into the back of the net. Surely that's job done now. Salah is booked for his shirt-removing celebration.
68 min Spurs have only won once in Italy on their six previous visits - against AC Milan. How badly they need Kane to be their saviour again as he looks to make space for a 20-yard shot but is hounded off the ball.
63 min At the moment it's Fiorentina who look like scoring again as they continue to hit Spurs on the break. Gomez and Salah are causing the Tottenham defence all sorts of problems as the big German looks to create space for a shot on the edge of the box but is knocked out of his stride by Vertonghen.
61 min Salah has the chance to kill this tie off but Lloris comes to Spurs' rescue. The former Chelsea star runs through on goal, just like Gomez before him, but this time Lloris gets down low and is able to smother the Egyptian's shot. Spurs are living on a knife edge as Kane is brought on in place of Bentaleb.
55 min Fiorentina's sense of euphoria is tempered a tad as Basanta goes down injured and is carried off an a stretcher. Rodriguez runs on as his replacement. That's two enforced substitutions Fiorentina manager Montella has had to make.
GOAL! Fiorentina 1 Tottenham 0 (Gomez 52 min) - Pizarro feeds Gomez into space behind the Spurs back line with a perfectly-weighted through-ball and the German uses his strength to brush off Fazio and slot the ball through Lloris's legs.
51 min Best chance of the match for Fiorentina as Badelj has a clear sight on goal but fires straight at Lloris. Either side of the Frenchman and that would probably have been the breakthrough.
49 min Nasty-looking collision between Davies and Badelj -and Davies is booked. It means Davies will be suspended for the first leg last 16 game should Tottenham go through.
46 min We're back underway and it's Tottenham immediately on the attack. Something has to give because if it stays as it is, Fiorentina go through. The bad news for Spurs fans is that no English side has ever scored an away goal in Florence.
HALF-TIME Fiorentina 0 Tottenham 0
44 min Spurs break down the left wing through Davies and Eriksen as one minute of extra time is shown. But the Dane tries to be too clever and Fiorentina clear. Half-time.
41 min Salah bursts into the Tottenham box and has the shot but it's on his weaker right foot and blazes over.

38 min Danger for Tottenham as Gomez muscles his way onto the ball in the Spurs box and creates an angle for the shot, but Fazio is on hand to block the German's effort. Replays show that the Gomez shot hit Fazio on the arm - the referee didn't see it though.
36 min Free-kick to Tottenham and Pizarro is yellow carded. The set-piece is from 25 yards out but that's Eriksen range.... here he comes... straight at the wall. Disappointing.
33 min The best chance of the match has gone to Spurs so far and they do look like the team most likely to beak the deadlock. A neat ball over the top is well controlled by Lamela looking over his head, but the Argentine is quickly crowded out. Chiriches has a follow-up shot but it's straight down Neto's throat.
29 min Spurs have just butchered a golden opportunity! Soldado was through on goal, one on one with Neto, and with Chadli to his left in case he wanted to pass. The Fiorentina defence had stopped, hoping for an offside flag, but Soldado was onside and, with too much time to think, passed to Chadli. His ball was far too close to Neto, though, who was able to smother the ball at Chadli's feet. Dear oh dear.
28 min Brilliant tracking back by Bentaleb! Salah goes on a run from the halfway line all the way into the Tottenham box but Bentaleb eases nerves with a well-timed sliding tackle.

27 min Gomez is keeping the assistant referee busy as he's flagged offside again. Again it was close.
25 min Fernandez is injured after a colission with Stambouli. He doesn't look too comfortable. And he's coming off. Former Liverpool man Aquilani runs on in his place.
22 min As we reach the halfway point of the first half, Tottenham are dominating possession. It took a while but the Premier League side have started to settle into the stride of the match and look the more threatening - Fiorentina are happy to park the bus and hit Spurs on the break.
20 min Eriksen tries to beat the entire Fiorentina back line by clipping the ball over each of the heads, one by one, but eventually falls at the third hurdle and the hosts clear. Corner to Spurs, though. It's flung in, only half cleared and Stambouli, from the edge of the area, drives goalbound... but the ball hits a body and deflects away.
18 min Gomez is through this time having beaten the offside trap - but my God he looks clumsy when running with the ball and Vertonghen is able to get back and shield it into touch.

16 min Fancy flick-on from Soldado almost finds Lamela but Savic manages to get a foot in to intercept. And the hosts break immediately - but they are pinged for offside AGAIN. This time Gomez. That was even closer than earlier. Spurs are playing a risky game with this high line.
12 min The onus is on Tottenham, having conceded an away goal in the first leg, and so far they don't look too threatening. On the other hand, Fiorentina do look dangeorus on the break. Salah bursts through on goal but the Turkish assistant on the nearside flags for offside and Tottenham are let off. Close though.
9 min Lamela has the first chance for Tottenham as he fires goalbound from 20 yards out, but Neto is comfortably behind the ball.
8 min There are a lot of loose balls being passed around out there, from both sides, but it's Fiorentina who are fastest on to them at present.
6 min Good inter-passing between Stambouli and Bentaleb as Spurs dominate possession, prompting whistles from the Fiorentina supporters. The ball is lost, though, and Salah (he formerly of Chelsea) breaks forward- and there's a mass race on by Spurs to get back into position. Corner for the hosts and Lloris punches clear.

4 min Badelj with the first pop at goal as space opens up for the Croatian on the edge of the box but he hooks his shot wide. It resulted from a poor defensive clearance by Chiriches.
2 min The Fiorentina fans are in good voice as play gets underway. It's all a bit scrappy at the moment with all the action concentrated in the midde of the pitch.
18.00 The players are out on the pitch and lining up. Not long now... Around 2,000 Spurs fans have made the trip.
17.50 As already mentioned, Spurs also have the small matter of a League Cup final to contend with on Sunday. Chelsea are favourites, but Spurs love cups. Who do we reckon will win?
Tom Edwards and JJ Bull have already played the game - Fifa style - and we have a winner! Will it come true? Let's just hope the standard is higher come the weekend...

17.30 Pochettino looks in good spirits as he surveys the battle ground...

17.00 The teams are in. Pochettino has made seven alterations. Hugo Lloris, Jan Vertonghen, Nabil Bentaleb and Erik Lamela are the only survivors in Florence from Sunday's 2-2 draw with West Ham.
Harry Kane is among those on the bench with Sunday's Capital One Cup final against Chelsea in mind, while England international Micah Richards starts for the hosts.
Fiorentina v Tottenham Hotspur
Fiorentina: Neto, Richards, Basanta, Savic, Alonso, Fernandez, Pizarro, Badelj, Joaquin, Salah, Gomez. Subs: Lezzerini, Rodriguez, Aquilani, Pasqual, El Babacar, Tomovic, Ilicic.
Tottenham Hotspur: Lloris, Chiriches, Fazio, Vertonghen, Davies, Lamela, Stambouli, Bentaleb, Chadli, Eriksen, Soldado. Subs: Vorm, Walker, Rose, Paulinho, Townsend, Kane, Mason.
Referee: Huseyin Gocek (Turkey)
The Florence police are out in force. Source EPA
16.45 Tottenham have the Capital One Cup final looming large but that does not mean Mauricio Pochettino will be treating the Fiorentina match lightly, describing the Europa League tie as merely their "first final".
The next few days have the potential to decide whether the former Argentina defender's first season at the White Hart Lane helm is deemed a success or failure.
Sunday offers the mouth-watering prospect of silverware in the Capital One Cup final, when victory against Chelsea would end a seven-year wait for a trophy.
Before the Wembley showdown, though, comes another important match as Spurs take on Serie A high-fliers Fiorentina for a place in the Europa League last-16.
A 1-1 draw in the first leg means the north Londoners face a tough challenge at the Stadio Artemio Franchi - a match which has Pochettino's full attention, despite the little matter of Sunday.
"The problem is the decision that you take is always about the result that you get," the Spurs boss said when asked about rotating his side in Florence.
"If today you make the rotation and after on Sunday you win, you are a genius.
"Sunday you may rest some players and play others and win against Chelsea in final - you're a genius.
"But if you lose today and lost in the final, you are a very bad manager, a very bad coach. I think it's not fair.
"The most important thing is to be clear, analyse and to identify that today is our first final.
"We need to decide the team after we analyse every case and every player.
"After, the players we play today is because they are in full recovery and fully fit.
"But if you take one decision or another decision, after it's about result. If you take a positive result, it's the same. I'm the same manager, the same coach.
"But when you take a decision sometimes you are right or wrong, but this is all football.
"We take the decision to try to win today, for trying to play better than Fiorentina and after, analyse the game and try to put the best team out for the final on Sunday."
Spurs have brought a full-strength side to Tuscany, although it does not include Emmanuel Adebayor, Etienne Capoue or captain Younes Kaboul.
They have remained in London ahead of the League Cup final, for which Pochettino hopes the preparation will be aided by staying on in Florence on Thursday night.
Join Giles Mole from 5pm for all the build-up and team news
