http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569199/s/429078bd/sc/38/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cgolf0C11361270A0CTiger0EWoods0ERobert0EAllenby0Eand0ELee0EWestwood0Eall0Econtribute0Eto0Egolfs0Efarce0Ewithout0Ethe0Elaughs0Bhtml/story01.htm
Tiger Woods, Robert Allenby and Lee Westwood all contribute to golf's farce without the laughs
By Oliver Brown
6:29PM GMT 21 Jan 2015
Comments
This has been the strangest week in golf since Bernhard Langer decided to play his famous shot at Fulford from the upper branches of an ash tree. First, the hitherto monochrome Robert Allenby, his face disfigured by welts and scars, recounts a lurid tale of being taken captive at a Honolulu bar, driven six miles by his attackers, robbed of his phone and wallet and then dumped from a car. The questioning of his story – even the BBC is referring to the Australian’s alleged kidnapping in inverted commas – will not go away, given that he is said to have been found just one block away from the bar, by a homeless woman called Charade Keane. Yes, Charade.
Then, Tiger Woods turns up in the alpine idyll of Cortina d’Ampezzo wearing the kind of ghoulish skull mask that looks as if it was borrowed from a bikers’ Halloween party. It seems like a desperate attempt to go incognito as he pays a surprise visit to his girlfriend Lindsey Vonn on the occasion of her record-breaking 63rd World Cup ski win. But closer examination reveals he is disguising a missing tooth. A secret altercation? An especially brittle in‑flight cookie? Mark Steinberg, Woods’s agent, seeks to scotch the conspiracy theories by disclosing that his man was bashed in the mouth by an overzealous videographer. But this merely begs questions of why, 48 hours on, there remains no witness to such an incident and why, when the accused is a cameraman, there is still zero footage.
Before you know it, the most ostensibly sedate of sports has become a cross between the Ultimate Fighting Championship and a late-night whodunit. Just for good measure, Dustin Johnson has emerged from his six‑month hibernation to give what purports to be a tell-all interview to Sports Illustrated.
Trouble is, the golfing wild-child’s confessional is so heavily stage‑managed – the opening paragraph depicts him flanked by his agent and a PR consultant – that he might as well have said nothing at all. While he rebuts rumours of cocaine use, Johnson admits “I have issues”, without specifying what they might be. Under the stern gaze of father-in-law and ice‑hockey legend Wayne Gretzky, apparently aping the role of Robert De Niro in Meet the Parents, he simply descends into abstract therapy-speak about being “the person I want my kids to look up to”.
But it is the Woods episode that dismays most. For here is a man who, after 18 years as the most famous sportsman on the planet, continues to find no way of enjoying the exposure. Unlike his friend Roger Federer, who – but for a rare outburst at a TV man for encroaching too close on court in Melbourne on Wednesday – wears the robes of global renown calmly and classily, Woods’s attitude to his exalted status is one of utter joylessness. He hopes to evade attention in the Italian Dolomites by skulking around like an extra from the Rocky Horror Show. He greets journalists following him at Firestone Country Club by hissing: “Give me some f------ space.” And he wastes his time and everyone else’s by reacting to a pastiche interview by Dan Jenkins, mischievous doyen of American golf writers, with a pointless and self-pitying diatribe on a friend’s website.
New witness questions Allenby 'kidnap' claim
Allenby issues emotional defence of kidnap story
Lee 'the Hoff' Westwood rescues drowning man
Tiger Woods blames missing tooth on cameraman
Next week Woods is making his first appearance in 12 years at the infelicitously named Waste Management Phoenix Open, more commonly known as ‘The Wasted’, given that half a million Arizona residents use the four days as an excuse to get royally drunk. It is instructive to compare footage of his debut there in 1996 to now. Then, he was the cherubic young phenom, whose first professional hole-in-one at Scottsdale’s 16th sent the hordes into a leaping, beer-hurling frenzy. He all but combusts with euphoria, mischievously exhorting the crowd as they drench themselves in a cloudburst of Coors Light. The image is sepia-tinged, like a picture of lost innocence. This is the before-the-crash Tiger: exuberant, boisterous, smiling. These days, even on holiday, he is every inch the tortured superstar: sulky, snarling, downcast.
One prominent European Tour player tells an anecdote of how on Woods’s first visit to a tournament in the Middle East, he invited him, for a night’s drinking. Woods indicated that he would love to come, but that the paparazzi who would be sure to follow him if he so much as stepped outside the threshold of his six-star hotel were not worth the aggravation. This melancholy little tale set the tone for much of his adult life.
Woods is such a prisoner of his own celebrity that he cannot turn up for the Open without a phalanx of security men that would embarrass the Secret Service and is incapable, if Steinberg is to be believed, of spending a romantic weekend with his partner without being whacked in the face by a rogue lens.
It is the type of scene that belongs in a play: The Sadness of Being Tiger Woods. Then again, Planet Golf is fast turning into a theatre of the absurd. As if the Allenby and Woods escapades are not enough, we learn that Lee Westwood is spending his down-time channelling his inner David Hasselhoff, rescuing a millionaire from the ocean off Barbados.
Truly, Baywatch has nothing on Worksop’s finest amateur lifeguard. And we are worried about the Open switching from the BBC to Sky Sports? On the latest evidence, golf would be more at home on the schedules of Channel Five, somewhere between True Crimes and the dental special of Cosmetic Surgery Live.
Fifa’s saviour? Mitt Romney
Think there is nobody to fill Fifa’s credibility gap? Step forward Mitt Romney, twice a failed Republican presidential candidate and, in a former life, a key figure in restoring the reputation of Salt Lake City’s Winter Olympics after a bribery scandal.
Romney (right) is understood to be the preferred choice of Bonita Mersiades, the Australian whistleblower who has brought many corruption allegations against Fifa, to help lead an independent panel holding the decrepit world governing body to account. He is far from an outlandish choice.
Romney was chosen to spearhead the Olympic efforts in Utah in 2002 because of his untainted image and, as he secured record levels of US federal funding for the Games, volunteers wore “Mitt, we love you!” badges. He could bring some needed gravitas to the anti-Fifa movement if he abandons his designs on the White House in 2016.
Africa’s cup now a horror show
Equatorial Guinea’s staging of the Africa Cup of Nations resembles a dictator’s desperate vanity project. This tiny, oil-rich country was only allowed to step in after Morocco took fright at fears of an Ebola pandemic, and the preposterousness of the switch is fast becoming clear.
Reporters travelling back to the capital Bata from Mongomo, home to the clan of president Teodoro Mbasago, tell of driving down a four-lane motorway to which civilians are denied access. Not only is the place undemocratic, it is also dangerous in terms of its inability to handle a health crisis arising from people arriving from Ebola-affected areas.
The tournament is already losing lustre, as a consequence of African teams’ abysmal World Cup showing at the last World Cup and the continent’s marquee players being past their prime. The last thing it needs is a basket-case of a host.
