http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569027/s/2fa3e648/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Ccompetitions0Cleague0Ecup0C10A22710A50CExeter0ECity0E0A0EQueens0EPark0ERangers0E20Ematch0Ereport0Bhtml/story01.htm
Exeter City 0 Queens Park Rangers 2: match report
By Nigel Walrond
10:38PM BST 06 Aug 2013
Comments
Summer signings Charlie Austin and Danny Simpson scored as Queens Park Rangers brushed past Exeter City with a comfortable victory at St James Park.
Exeter – two divisions lower – had won only one of their previous 24 League Cup ties, and they never looked like breaking that sequence.
Austin, a £4 million capture from Burnley, was handed his first start by manager Harry Redknapp and took less than two minutes to score.
Ali Faurlin’s corner was cleared to Jermaine Jenas on the edge of the penalty box, and his powerful shot, which was going wide, was deflected into the net by Austin.
City’s Polish goalkeeper, Artur Krysiak, prevented City from going further behind five minutes later, diving to his left to keep out captain Clint Hill’s downward header from Joey Barton’s corner.
Steward trampled by horse in pitch invasion
Ince: will it take a stabbing to force change?
FA and police look into Deepdale pitch invasion
Bradford back on the Wembley trail
Newport set for Brighton trip
How Welsh football has cleaned up
Junior Hoilett weaved his way into a great position before delivering a right-foot shot, which Krysiak parried behind for a corner. More great work by Hoilett put Austin through on goal, only for his angled effort to be deflected away for another flag-kick.
Liam Sercombe warmed Murphy’s hands with a fierce drive as Exeter rallied, but just before the interval Krysiak again did well to keep out efforts from Bobby Zamora and Jenas, and it was a mystery how QPR reached the break only 1-0 up.
Jenas hit a superb 25-yard volley from Barton’s corner soon after the restart that Krysiak punched away.
But the second goal was not long in coming, and it was one of real quality. Andy Johnson, a half-time substitute, picked out Simpson’s darting run with a superb pass, and the full-back took the ball in his stride before planting his shot into the far side of the net. It should have been 3-0 soon after, but Barton was denied by Krysiak’s outstretched leg.
Exeter’s Arron Davies rattled the bar, but QPR’s Shaun Wright-Phillips also hit the woodwork.
