http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/668943/s/42cf2c55/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Cwales0C11375890A0CWarren0EGatland0Ebelieves0EEngland0Ecan0Eshrug0Eoff0Einjury0Ecrisis0Bhtml/story01.htm
Warren Gatland believes England can shrug off injury crisis
By Gavin Mairs
11:22PM GMT 28 Jan 2015
Comments
Warren Gatland, the Wales head coach, says it is important his side do not become distracted by the focus on England’s deepening injury crisis ahead of the RBS Six Nations opener in Cardiff on February 6. He said he still expected England to field a “really strong” side, given their resources.
“England have a huge amount of strength in depth in a lot of positions,” Gatland said. “It does not matter what team England put out. They are going to be strong and we saw that last summer, when they were able to put out a different team against the All Blacks and did exceptionally well. So we are expecting a really strong side. We had a lot of injuries last year and if you look at Six Nations 2014, England only made three changes, Ireland made four and we made 18.
“We are lucky this time around that we have not got too many and unfortunately England have picked up a few. The challenge for us is to make sure we don’t allow the injuries to become a distraction and people talk us up too much. England will be a strong side whatever happens.”
Gatland expects England, too, will have learnt how to cope with the intensity of the Millennium Stadium atmosphere following their heavy defeat there two years ago. “You learn from experiences and a lot of those players two years ago had not played at the Millennium Stadium before,” Gatland said.
“A lot of players would have learnt from that experience. Last year we lost at Twickenham in a game we could have won after playing poorly and England played well. So we all have a bit of baggage over the last couple of years.”
England hit again with Farrell to miss Six Nations
England and Wales prepare for Six Nations opener
Parling adds to injury crisis
Cipriani and Easter have only been called to England's periphery
Gatland, who expects his only two current injury concerns, Samson Lee and Liam Williams, to be fit, said it was likely that Wales would look to send their big runners, such as Jamie Roberts, to test the defence of fly-half George Ford. “That’s modern international rugby, where people target the 10 channel. Outside-halves are physically one of the smallest players on the field. We are no different to anyone else and it’s part of the game now.”
Meanwhile, Gatland has expressed his surprise that Adam Jones opted to retire from international rugby last week after the prop was omitted from Wales’s Six Nations squad. “That is his own personal decision,” Gatland said. “I was surprised at the timing and I thought he might have waited until the end of the season, because the door wasn’t closed. He has made the decision and his contribution to Welsh rugby has been immense.
“What he has achieved in our game is tremendous and there was a time where he was the first name on the team sheet. He has won three Grand Slams, another Six Nations Championship and a Lions tour.”

