http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/31927844
Greg Dyke: FA chairman wants action over surrounding referees
Chelsea's players were criticised after surrounding referee Bjorn Kuipers during their match against Paris St-Germain
17 March 2015 Last updated at 22:00
Football Association chairman Greg Dyke has expressed his concern at the "scary" increase in incidents of players surrounding referees.
The number of confrontations of match officials in the professional game in England has almost trebled since last season, figures show.
The FA wrote to clubs in England's top five divisions in December to remind them of their responsibilities.
"The whole game needs to ensure it is addressing this issue," said Dyke.
The FA says an offence of this nature has been committed when three or more players of one club approach an official in a confrontational manner.
At this stage last season, the FA had charged six clubs for not controlling their players. This term, the number has risen to 16.
Clubs have been warned following such incidents on 29 occasions, compared to 14 this time last year.
"We have seen a pretty scary increase this season in the number of clubs charged with their players surrounding referees," Dyke said.
"I believe it is particularly important for professional clubs to set an example so that this kind of conduct is not replicated at grassroots and youth level."
The FA's bid to tackle the issue comes after Chelsea's players were criticised for surrounding referee Bjorn Kuipers during their Champions League tie against Paris St-Germain.
QPR are among the Premier League clubs to have been fined for surrounding an offical this season
Chelsea will not face any action from Uefa as, unlike the FA, the European governing body has no specific rules governing surrounding the referee.
Uefa president Michel Platini is expected to consider introducing similar regulations, however.
The FA introduced a charge of surrounding match officials as part of its Respect campaign.
Now, seven years after the launch of that campaign, designed to improve player and spectator behaviour at the grassroots level of the game, the FA is desperate to clamp down on what it sees as a growing problem.
The issue was raised directly by FA officials with players and club staff at visits in the summer, when it was made clear it would not be tolerated.
That has been reflected by charges being consistently brought against offenders.
Chelsea were fined after being found guilty of surrounding the referee during a recent game with Everton, while Queens Park Rangers were fined for the same offence in November, as were West Ham United in February.
The FA is understood to be open to the possibility of increasing fines for clubs whose players are found guilty of harassing a referee. Referees may also be encouraged to take a tougher line on dissent, and book more players who surround them.
The Professional Footballers' Association could also come under pressure to provide more guidance and better education to its members.
All posts are reactively-moderated and must obey the house rules.
Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments
Who cares,at the end of the day football by know should have video technology f the referee.the reason why we dont have it is due to the fact football is fixed.most football matches are fixed TRUST ME
The only people who should be speaking to the ref are the people involved in the incident and the captains if needed.To be honest the standard of officiating at all levels of football is abysmal but this is not helped by the constant feigning from players and their other antics.Why people still think footballers are role models is beyond me.From top to bottom football is broken.
307. Posted by tangled webbIf for arguments sake, refs earned as much as say Eden Hazard, then the standard of candidate would increase dramatically. Accountability and professional oversight would be demanded instantly and standards would increase dramatically. what we currently have is a joke.
@295 mwdThat might be the stupidist and most red-biased comment I've heard since people tried to argue against Nani's sending off in CL game against Real Madrid along the lines he didn't know the player was there - he was only going for the ball. If I wanted to play a high looping pass that was falling almost vertically towards me I too would jump 3 ft. in the air to make trapping it easier! :)
Fines are no good. Deduct points but also can we really not produce better refs than this? I know it's a hard job but look at that idiot who reffed the Villa-WBA cup match. He was poor but compounded his display by failing to secure the safety of the players. Some of these guys are just way,way out of their depth.
306. Because at present, I believeEPL refs are paid more than Specialist Registrar Doctors. Lawyers once partners ar on mega bucks more and refs unlikely to appeal to truly bright as a career, unless they enjoyed showbusiness which is what Football is?
what about this as an idea? Make refereeing a profession on the level of doctors, lawyers. then automatically you have barriers to entry, professional standards and people actually wanting to become refs and raising the quality automatically. why should a financially driven game not have the appropriate officiating standards. theres too much at stake.
@ 1plus1Lowest rated comment? What world do you live in when that even matters? Are you 5?@ 304Spot on. Teams have been hounding referees for years. It's only since they turned full time and implemented the "Respect" campaign that it has become an issue. They need to man up and just get on with doing their jobs.
So, it's all agreed, Alex Ferguson caused all these issues.What a load of rubbish, misbehaving players and managers was going on long before he came along.I can assure you that you cannot have the success that MU had on dodgy decisions, luck, favours from FA, Referees scared of Fergie. Every season, the best teams are top of the league, not the luckiest, and the worst teams get relegated.
Dissent and surrounding referees is directly proportional to the officiating quality. Improve the quality and players won't be so quick to try and plead the cases. I mean, come on, Chelsea only having 2 league pens all season with the attacking mids the possess? Respectfully but with sarcasm, I wonder why they're showing dissent.
We're having some problems displaying the comments at the moment. Sorry. We're doing our best to fix it.
Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments
You must sign in to rate comments
Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register
Close
Women’s Super League 2, Wed 18 Mar, 18:30 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live sports extra
Champions League, Wed 18 March, 19:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Champions League, Wed 18 March, 19:45 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Scottish Cup replay, Wed 18 Mar, 19:45 GMT, BBC Radio Scotland (MW)
Fri 20 March, 19:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Sat 21 Mar, 07:40 GMT, CBBC
Find out the full list of award winners
Catch up with Ski Sunday on the BBC
How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign
