http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/31919801
Sunderland: Dick Advocaat appointed Black Cats boss
Dick Advocaat managed Rangers from 1998 to 2002
17 March 2015 Last updated at 14:38
Sunderland have appointed Dick Advocaat as their new manager until the end of the season.
The former Netherlands coach takes over a day after the sacking of Gus Poyet with the Black Cats one point above the Premier League relegation zone.
"We have one aim only now - to climb the table - and everyone is fully focused on the task ahead of us," said Sunderland chairman Ellis Short.
Advocaat, 67, said: "I can't wait to get started."
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Pundits say 'no-one was surprised' by Poyet's sacking
Poyet was sacked after a run of just one victory in 12 league games, which left Sunderland 17th in the Premier League and one point above the relegation zone.
They were thrashed 4-0 at home by relegation rivals Aston Villa in Poyet's last match and Advocaat's reign will get under way with a game at West Ham on Saturday.
"Sunderland is a big club and I am very much looking forward to the challenge ahead," said the Dutchman, who becomes the oldest manager currently in the top flight.
"We must now concentrate on Saturday as a priority."
Zeljko Petrovic will be Advocaat's first-team coach, while former Swansea and England Under-20 goalkeeping coach Adrian Tucker will be part of his backroom staff.
Sunderland academy coach Paul Bracewell will also support the head coach and his backroom team for the final nine games of the season.
Advocaat guided Zenit to Uefa Cup glory in 2008 against Rangers in Manchester
Dick Advocaat has never managed in the Premier League but was in charge of Scottish club Rangers between 1998 and 2002.
He won the league title and cup double twice at Ibrox, while he also has league titles with PSV Eindhoven in his homeland as well as Zenit St Petersburg in Russia.
The Dutchman also led Zenit to victory over Rangers in the 2008 Uefa Cup final - now known as the Europa League - while his side also beat Manchester United in the Uefa Super Cup later that year.
Internationally, he has coached the Netherlands twice and also managed United Arab Emirates, South Korea, Belgium, Russia and Serbia.
He quit as Serbia coach in November, a day after a 3-1 Euro 2016 qualifying defeat against Denmark left them joint bottom of Group I.
Advocaat was just four months into a two-year contract after replacing Sinisa Mihajlovic and had been in charge for three games.
Numan spent five years at Scottish club Rangers
Defender Arthur Numan played under Advocaat for Netherlands, Rangers and PSV Eindhoven.
"He always said that it was his dream to become a coach in England," Numan told BBC Radio 5 live. "I think he is the kind of coach Sunderland needs. He's a coach with a lot of experience.
"It's a challenge to keep them in the Premier League. Maybe, if that is possible, he will stay maybe for another year, or another two years.
"The moment he arrives in England, the players will notice he's around. He eats, drinks and sleeps football 24/7, so he is devoted.
"I think the press are going to love him as well because he is outspoken, he has an opinion about football."
"It's a strange appointment. He's extremely strict in what he does but I really don't think he has got the time to instil anything like that on the players to change the results," former Rangers defender Colin Hendry told BBC Radio 5 live.
"He can walk away as a success by keeping them up or he might get a longer contract. Or they might be relegated and it wasn't his fault anyway. It's a no-lose situation for Dick Advocaat."
"Would suggest Advocaat's record is 'credible' rather than incredible. He's never been required to perform a late season fire-fighting role, though." Oliver Kay, chief football correspondent for The Times
"A coach with no experience of English football faces a daunting run-in, including away games at West Ham United, Arsenal, Stoke City, Everton and Chelsea." Henry Winter, Daily Telegraph football correspondent
All posts are reactively-moderated and must obey the house rules.
Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments
We did really well yesterday considering how things could have got hairy from the 1st 5 minutes with that early Monaco attack scare.Giroud redeemed himself with his accuracy and composure in front of goal, although sadly it's yet another Year of lessons to be learned by Wenger in being mentally strong to see out games at the top Level.At least this Year looks like a Top3 instead of Top4!
@404 hang on a minute.....mourinho has won the cl twice...ma city havnt been in the cl 19 times.....you tell me any manager that has had more goes in the cl than wenger and failed every time...Im not saying wenger is a poor manager...im saying that 19 consecutive failures in europe is appalling ...you would have expected at least 1 success with the players and stature of a club like arsenal....
@402 I dont call it success , but you called his CL record as appalling which I disagree with . Isn,t it arrogant to expect that we will win the CL when we haven,t won our own domestic league for over ten years ? I would look at Man City,s record in the CL in recent years as being appalling . Even Mourinho , the greatest manager ever to exist ( in his eyes ) has never led Chelsea to CL success
@402 Yes of course..England dominates Europe every year or is it every leap year...lets check
@396 so your definition of success in the cl is last 16 for 5 out of 10 years?how many times has he reached the final?how many times has wenger ever won in europe with anybody?if thats success id hate to think what failure is...
I hope a player doesnt ruffle Dickies barnet or its tata.
As a neutral, I am sorry to see him saked.I thought he brought integrity and passion, was well-spoken and knowledgable.Shame he wasn't able to get the team to perform consistently (well). Probably best all round that he has moved on, he may do better elsewhere, and Sunderland might get a lift from a different manager. It sometimes works.
@markyhapms75Totally agree although the haters still manage to infiltrate discussions about other teams. What have Arsenal and Monaco got to do with Sunderland appointing Advocaat? I have even seen a post from an Arsenal hater so full of spelling mistakes that I can't decide whether calling them "Arsenil" is irony or just another case of bad spelling.:)
All credit to Burnley's Directors, the team have been in or around the bottom 3 all season, but they have still kept faith with the Manager. Unlike Palace, West Brom, Villa, QPR and now Sunderland. No loyalty and in the longer term , no stability.
I am always surprised that a premier league football club would appoint a foreign manager with no experience of the premier league, ahead of a vast list of experienced British managers who would I'm sure have more chance of avoiding the drop than a manager who has no experience of the league or the players he is inheriting.I hope they survive regardless.NUFC Fan.
We're having some problems displaying the comments at the moment. Sorry. We're doing our best to fix it.
Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register to comment and rate comments
You must sign in to rate comments
Sign in with your BBC iD, or Register
Close
Find out the full list of award winners
Women’s Super League 2, Wed 18 Mar, 18:30 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live sports extra
Champions League, Wed 18 March, 19:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Champions League, Wed 18 March, 19:45 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Scottish Cup replay, Wed 18 Mar, 19:45 GMT, BBC Radio Scotland (MW)
Fri 20 March, 19:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Sat 21 Mar, 07:40 GMT, CBBC
Catch up with Ski Sunday on the BBC
How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign
