http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/31926892
Garath McCleary: Bradford will ban fan for life if guilty of racist abuse
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Reading's Garath McCleary allegedly racially abused by a fan
17 March 2015 Last updated at 16:00
Bradford City will consider a life ban if a fan arrested for alleged racial abuse of Reading midfielder Garath McCleary is found guilty.
Bradford chairman Mark Lawn said the club will take their own action once police investigations are completed.
A 36-year-old man from Bradford arrested during the FA Cup quarter-final replay has been released on bail.
"If that person is found guilty, we will take action," Lawn said. "There is no place for that in the game."
Campaign group Kick It Out commended the swift action taken after McCleary reported the alleged abuse.
The 27-year-old created Reading's opening goal and scored the second in their 3-0 quarter-final replay win at the Madejski Stadium.
He was targeted when he took a corner late in the first half and reported the incident to match officials shortly before half-time.
Reading FC said they were disappointed to see a number of fans invade the pitch at full time
Thames Valley Police confirmed five arrests were made at the match in connection with various alleged offences, including three other men from Bradford and a 20-year-old man from Wokingham.
Reading FC issued a statement in response to several incidents during the match, expressing their disappointment that a number of fans had invaded the pitch at full-time.
A man also entered the pitch during the second half and objects were seen to be thrown from the away end.
"The majority of supporters on the pitch were peaceful, however we were appalled to see an item thrown into the away end," a club spokesman said.
"This type of behaviour is completely unacceptable. We have a strict approach to pyrotechnics, and a man from Bradford was arrested outside the ground before the game for possession of a flare."
The Football Association said it will be contacting both clubs for their observations during the match.
Women’s Super League 2, Wed 18 Mar, 18:30 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live sports extra
Champions League, Wed 18 March, 19:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Champions League, Wed 18 March, 19:45 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Scottish Cup replay, Wed 18 Mar, 19:45 GMT, BBC Radio Scotland (MW)
Fri 20 March, 19:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Sat 21 Mar, 07:40 GMT, CBBC
Catch up with Ski Sunday on the BBC
How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign
