http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/31938661
Cardiff City: Manager Russell Slade says wins 'around corner'
Cardiff City have not won a home game since 10 January
18 March 2015 Last updated at 08:43
Cardiff City manager Russell Slade praised his team's spirit following their 1-1 draw with Championship chasing Bournemouth.
It followed Saturday's 2-1 win at Brentford, and Slade says the results show his team's improvement.
Cardiff have not won at home since 10 January, but the manager insists the victories will come soon.bbc sport wales
"That's two defeats in the last 10 games and shows progress, the wins will be just around the corner," said Slade.
"It shows how much improvement we've made really.
"It was a good yardstick to play these two (Bournemouth and Brentford) at this stage of the season and to get the win on Saturday and to follow it up with at least something is great.
"We stayed in the game and maybe we wouldn't have done that eight or nine weeks ago because we are improving.
"We are fitter and we know each others strengths a bit more now."
Cardiff fell behind to a Harry Arter goal early in the first half, but Bruno Ecuele Manga's second half header earned a point which lifted the Bluebirds to 13th in the table.
Bournemouth dropped to third place after wins for Watford and Middlesbrough.
The Bluebirds' next three matches are against teams below them in the table, and Slade believes a home win will not be long coming.
"We desperately to get that home win," he said.
"But the fans also want the performance - they also want to see the passion and I thought we delivered that in bundles.
"Even though we didn't win, if we carry on playing like that, if we keep playing like we did last week, they will come."
Cardiff face Birmingham at home on Saturday, and then have as break before a trip to Reading on 4 April and a home game with Bolton on Monday, 6 April.
Women’s Super League 2, Wed 18 Mar, 18:30 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live sports extra
Champions League, Wed 18 March, 19:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Champions League, Wed 18 March, 19:45 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Scottish Cup replay, Wed 18 Mar, 19:45 GMT, BBC Radio Scotland (MW)
Fri 20 March, 19:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Sat 21 Mar, 07:40 GMT, CBBC
Catch up with Ski Sunday on the BBC

How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign
