http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/cricket/31948172
Cricket World Cup: Bangladesh can upset India - Mortaza
Bangladesh captain Mashrafe Mortaza has taken 189 wickets in his 148 ODIs
18 March 2015 Last updated at 16:31
Venue: Melbourne Cricket Ground Date: Thursday, 19 March Start: 03:30 GMT Coverage: Live Test Match Special commentary on BBC Radio 5 live sports extra & BBC Sport website; live text commentary on BBC Sport website on desktop, tablets, mobiles and app
Bangladesh have the strength in depth to upset India in Thursday's World Cup quarter-final in Melbourne, according to captain Mashrafe Mortaza.
Four of the Tigers' squad featured in a pool-stage win over India at the 2007 World Cup but Mortaza says the world champions should be wary of his younger players as well.
"We don't have just two players who can change a game," Mortaza, 31, said.
"Everybody is performing his best; we are performing as a professional team."
Mortaza, who took 4-38 at Port-of-Spain as Bangladesh edged out India to qualify for the Super Eights in 2007, says the top scorers from that match - Tamim Iqbal, Mushfiqur Rahim and Shakib Al Hasan - remain key.
"The three players who got a fifty against India in 2007 are all still in the side and in good form, and hopefully they will step up tomorrow, but I would like to see the whole team perform," he said.
Abdur Razzak took 3-38 as Bangladesh beat India by five wickets in the 2007 World Cup
The Bangladesh skipper has been pleased by the form of Mahmudullah, who hit a maiden ODI century in the win over England and a second against New Zealand four days later, and Soumya Sarkar, who hit 40 against England and 51 against the Black Caps.
"Mahmudullah has hit two hundreds in a row, which is just brilliant, and it is nice to see Soumya Sarkar performing after coming into the World Cup having played only one ODI," he said.
India batsman Suresh Raina says Bangladesh's experience of Twenty20 cricket has had a positive affect on the side's 50-over game.
"You cannot take Bangladesh lightly - we lost against them in the 2007 World Cup and in the Asia Cup [in March 2012]," Raina said.
"They know how to play one-day cricket from their experience of both the Indian and the Bangladesh Premier Leagues."
Bangladesh celebrate beating England to reach the World Cup quarter-finals
Mortaza missed Bangladesh's last group game against New Zealand with a sore throat, and to rest the calf injury that caused him some mild discomfort in the match against England. The skipper is likely to replace Taijul Islam.
India have no injury worries going into the match at the Melbourne Cricket Ground, and may choose the same XI that beat Zimbabwe by six wickets in their final Pool B match.
Bangladesh bowler Taskin Ahmed took 5-28 in a one-day international against India in June 2014
Listen to highlights from Test Match Special's and 5 live Sport's 2015 World Cup coverage.
South Africa beat Sri Lanka by nine wickets, Sydney, 18 March
Bangladesh v India, Melbourne, 19 March
Australia v Pakistan, Adelaide, 20 March
New Zealand v West Indies, Wellington, 21 March
Bangladesh batsman Mahmudullah has scored 344 runs in this World Cup, more than any India player

How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign
