http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/rugby-union/31943565
Six Nations: Ireland's Henshaw 'more confident' with Payne
Robbie Henshaw and Jared Payne have formed a new centre partnership for Ireland
18 March 2015 Last updated at 12:06
Robbie Henshaw says there is "more to come" from his centre partnership with Jared Payne as Ireland aim to retain their Six Nations title this weekend.
The duo have played in Ireland's four championship games to date and are expected to line up again against Scotland at Murrayfield on Saturday.
"As we play more games together, I am getting to know more and more about Jared as a player," said Henshaw.
"I'm becoming more confident with him and our connection is growing."
Henshaw added: "We are getting better and better and there's a lot more to come from us."
The Connacht back admitted that Ireland "left a few chances behind them" as they went down 23-16 at the Millennium Stadium, thwarted by a heroic Welsh defensive effort.
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Robbie Henshaw has formed a centre partnership with Jared Payne
"We gave them a head start because of a bit of a lack of discipline on our part - that's something we'll look at this week and try to clean up around the breakdown.
"We lost a couple of aerial battles which we were used to dominating in the first three games, plus our set-piece didn't work as efficiently as we would have liked - those are areas we will look to improve on."
Ireland, England and Wales all have a realistic chance of winning the championship , having each won three of their four matches to date, with points difference likely to be the decisive factor.
France also harbour a mathematical ambition of snatching the crown on what promises to be an exciting final day.
"We're not looking at points difference - we're just concentrating on the game and trying to get a result. We are determined to put in a good performance after letting ourselves down a bit in Cardiff," added Henshaw.
"The Scots put it up to England at Twickenham and went close to turning them over, so we need to be 100% focused."
Ireland prop Mike Ross confirmed that set-piece practice would form an important part of team preparations this week in a bid to "avoid making the same errors" they made against Wales.
"Wales play first and the more information you have going onto the pitch the better," added the Leinster front row forward. "I guess England are in the box seat as they know exactly what they'll have to do against France."
Find out the full list of award winners
BBC Sport will bring you comprehensive coverage of the Six Nations on TV, radio and online.
Thu 19 March, 20:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Fri 20 March, 17:45 GMT, BBC Red Button
Sat 21 Mar, 08:40 GMT, BBC Two
Sat 21 Mar, 12:10 GMT, BBC One
Sat 21 Mar, 14:25 GMT, BBC One
Sat 21 Mar, 16:30 GMT, BBC One
Sat 21 Mar, 17:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Sat 21 Mar, 19:00 GMT, BBC Red Button
