http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/rugby-union/31934274
Six Nations 2015: Ireland will keep faith with attack - Simon Easterby
Tommy Bowe (above) was well placed to score a second-half try in Cardiff but the chance was lost because of Cian Healy's knock-on
17 March 2015 Last updated at 20:47
Forwards coach Simon Easterby says the Ireland management has full confidence in the side's attacking ability despite Saturday's defeat by Wales.
Ireland wasted several try-scoring chances in the 23-16 reverse which ended their Grand Slam chances.
They face Scotland on Saturday, with a Six Nations title still to play for.
"The players will always be backed to make decisions," said Easterby. "They are more than capable of producing the right things at the right time."
Replacement prop Cian Healy knocked on with the line at his mercy after racing through the middle of a ruck in Cardiff, with Tommy Bowe frustrated that a gaping backline overlap was not taken advantage of.
A misfiring line-out also hindered Ireland's attack and Easterby acknowledged on Tuesday that the squad have "worked hard" to rectify this on the training pitch so far this week.
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Ireland working hard to rectify line-out says Simon Easterby
"The players are hugely frustrated and despondent about that [line-out] performance," added the former Scarlets coach, who earned 65 Ireland caps.
"We know we are going to have to be far cleaner and far better against the Scots. They are particularly effective in line-out attack and defence."
Asked how to solve the front-foot shortcomings, Easterby replied: "By backing the players to make the right calls at the right time.
"All the players are comfortable to catch and pass and make good decisions. That's the bottom line.
"They are more than capable of producing the right things at the right time and sometimes under a bit of pressure, when the opposition are making it awkward to do certain things, you are going to come up with a few errors."
The 2015 Six Nations could be decided on points difference on Saturday as holders Ireland, England and Wales all head into the final round of matches having won three of their opening four games.
Easterby says Ireland must concentrate on their own game at Murrayfield rather than mulling over England's later tussle at Twickenham and the Welsh team's earlier Rome contest.
"The performance first and foremost will give us the right result and what goes outside of our environment in Rome and London is exactly that, outside our control.
"We can't factor that into what we're doing in the 80 minutes against Scotland.
"They are going to make it difficult enough as it is without us focusing on what else is going on elsewhere."
Find out the full list of award winners
BBC Sport will bring you comprehensive coverage of the Six Nations on TV, radio and online.
Thu 19 March, 20:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Fri 20 March, 17:45 GMT, BBC Red Button
Sat 21 Mar, 08:40 GMT, BBC Two
Sat 21 Mar, 12:10 GMT, BBC One
Sat 21 Mar, 14:25 GMT, BBC One
Sat 21 Mar, 16:30 GMT, BBC One
Sat 21 Mar, 17:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Sat 21 Mar, 19:00 GMT, BBC Red Button
