http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/rugby-union/31919260
Six Nations 2015: Wales make two changes for Italy match
Aaron Jarvis (L) and Rob Evans (R) start for Wales against Italy.
17 March 2015 Last updated at 11:10
Venue: Olympic Stadium, Rome Date: Saturday, 21 March. Kick-off: 12:30 GMT
Coverage: Live on BBC TV, HD, Red Button, BBC Radio Wales, Radio Cymru Radio 5 live, 5 live sports extra, online, mobile, the BBC Sport app and Connected TV.
Wales head coach Warren Gatland has made two enforced changes for Saturday's Six Nations match in Italy.
Aaron Jarvis comes in at at tight-head and Rob Evans makes his first start at loose-head in place of the injured Samson Lee and Gethin Jenkins.
There are four changes on the bench, with Rhys Gill, Ken Owens and Scott Andrews coming in as front row cover with hooker Richard Hibbard ruled out.
Scarlets scrum-half Gareth Davies comes in for Mike Phillips.
"Obviously it's disappointing for Gethin and Samson, but Rob and Aaron stepped up well last weekend and we expect the same on Saturday," said Gatland.
Scarlets' Lee is out of the match in Rome after injuring his Achilles tendon in the 23-16 win over Ireland, Jenkins has a hamstring injury.
Wales can win the championship following last weekend's 23-16 win over Ireland, but have an inferior points difference to the Irish and England with all three teams having won three matches.
Italy v Wales kicks off at 12:30 GMT, and is followed by Scotland v Ireland with England hosting France in the final game on Saturday evening.
The three-way battle - who needs what?
England
+37
France (h)
Ireland
+33
Scotland (a)
Wales
+12
Italy (a)
Gatland added that the fact they play first means Wales have to put down a mark for Ireland and England to chase.
"The challenge to us is to go to Italy and win, and try and win by a significant margin, but we know that's an extremely tough ask and the first job will be to simply get the result," he said.
"Italy build their confidence around the scrum and line-out drive and that's an area we are going to have to compete strongly in at the start of the match."
The 93-times capped Phillips drops out of the match day 23 and is replaced by Gareth Davies, who has made one appearance for Wales - against South Africa in Durban in June 2014.
Phillips was a second-half replacement for Rhys Webb against Ireland, but was penalised for a crooked feed at a crucial scrum late in the match.
Leigh Halfpenny (Toulon); George North (Northampton Saints), Jonathan Davies (ASM Clermont Auvergne), Jamie Roberts (Racing Metro), Liam Williams (Scarlets); Dan Biggar (Ospreys), Rhys Webb (Ospreys); Rob Evans (Scarlets), Scott Baldwin (Ospreys), Aaron Jarvis (Ospreys), Luke Charteris (Racing Metro), Alun Wyn Jones (Ospreys), Dan Lydiate (Ospreys), Sam Warburton (Cardiff Blues, capt), Taulupe Faletau (Newport Gwent Dragons).
Replacements: Ken Owens (Scarlets), Rhys Gill (Saracens), Scott Andrews (Cardiff Blues), Jake Ball (Scarlets), Justin Tipuric (Ospreys), Gareth Davies (Scarlets), Rhys Priestland (Scarlets), Scott Williams (Scarlets).
Full details of Wales' Test matches
BBC Sport will bring you comprehensive coverage of the Six Nations on TV, radio and online.
Thu 19 March, 20:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Fri 20 March, 17:45 GMT, BBC Red Button
Sat 21 Mar, 08:40 GMT, BBC Two
Sat 21 Mar, 12:10 GMT, BBC One
Sat 21 Mar, 14:25 GMT, BBC One
Sat 21 Mar, 16:30 GMT, BBC One
Sat 21 Mar, 17:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Sat 21 Mar, 19:00 GMT, BBC Red Button
Catch up with Ski Sunday on the BBC
How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign
