http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/rugby-union/31900276
Six Nations: Stuart Lancaster says England must learn from 2013 loss
Stuart Lancaster was appointed England head coach in March 2012 - a year after the team's last Six Nations title
15 March 2015 Last updated at 22:03
England must learn from the mistakes of the defeat in Cardiff two years ago if they are to clinch a first Six Nations crown since 2011, head coach Stuart Lancaster says.
England host France on Saturday as the bookies' favourites to win the title.
In 2013, a win in Wales would have given Lancaster a first Six Nations success but England were beaten 30-3.
"When it came to that game we were probably emotionally beyond the point where we needed to be," Lancaster said.
"My experience of the Millennium match two years ago was that by the Wednesday or Thursday we were almost ready for the game.
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Six Nations Catch-Up: The best action from week four
"We need to make sure we get the build-up right this time and don't overdo it too early in the week."
England go into the final round of matches on Saturday top of the table but level on points with Ireland and Wales.
They hold a points difference of +37 to Ireland's +33 and Wales' +12 and, assuming Ireland and Wales beat Scotland and Italy respectively, England - who play last - will know the margin of victory required against France to lift a first title in four years.
If they are successful, the atmosphere in the camp will be very different compared to when they last won.
In 2011 they claimed the title despite a 24-8 final match defeat by Ireland. The trophy was presented to the squad at a hotel near Lansdowne Road, but the celebrations were muted.
"It was weird because we lost very heavily, lost the Grand Slam but then got awarded the trophy. That was difficult," England flanker James Haskell said.
"It would be great to play well at Twickenham against France, get the win and enjoy that celebration to lay down a marker for the future."
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Six Nations 2013 highlights: Wales 30-3 England
BBC Sport will bring you comprehensive coverage of the Six Nations on TV, radio and online.
Find out the full list of award winners
How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign
