http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/rugby-union/31872271
Six Nations 2015: England, Wales and Ireland eye title
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Six Nations Catch-Up: The best action from week four
15 March 2015 Last updated at 16:49
Wales' win against Ireland and England's victory over Scotland means it looks as though there will be a three-way race for the Six Nations title on the final weekend, although France have emerged as dark horses following their thumping win over Italy on Sunday.
France, who won 29-0 in Rome, could still steal the title if Wales and Ireland lose next weekend and Les Bleus then beat England by a margin of eight points or more, but it looks a remote possibility.
England, Ireland and Wales are locked on six points with three wins apiece, and England's points difference of 37 puts them top, ahead of Ireland's 33 and Wales' 12.
France are fourth with four points and a points difference of 22.
It promises to be a fascinating last round of matches on Saturday, with Wales first in action away to Italy, before Ireland take on Scotland at Murrayfield, ahead of leaders England's home match against France.
With the Six Nations wide open, we assess the four teams' chances.
As they did in 2013, Wales have recovered from a poor start to launch themselves back into title contention.
An opening defeat by England dented confidence and shattered hopes of a third Grand Slam under Warren Gatland.
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Six Nations 2015: Wales 23-16 Ireland Highlights
But victories against Scotland, France and Ireland have given them an outside chance of lifting the Six Nations trophy again.
The odds are against Wales - they travel to Italy with the daunting task of having to win handsomely, knowing that even that might not be enough should Ireland beat Scotland or England win against France at Twickenham.
Italy's away win against Scotland showed what a threat they can be, and they will only be stronger in Rome - all Wales can do is win big and hope other results go their way.
Hopes of a Grand Slam may have evaporated in their defeat by Wales, but Ireland still have a strong chance of winning the title.
They are away against winless Scotland on the final weekend, and they will be aiming to pile more misery on the Scots.
Irish hopes rest heavily on the fitness of fly-half Johnny Sexton
After losing to Wales, Irish confidence may be dented.
But against a Scotland team seemingly destined for the Wooden Spoon, Ireland are still strong title contenders.
They have the benefit of knowing what Wales will have done, but with England kicking off after they have finished, they may be hesitant about whether to stick or twist.
England's superior points difference makes them the slight favourites to win the Championship.
Saturday's win against Scotland - coupled with their dismantling of Italy earlier in the tournament - has left them with a points difference of 37.
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Six Nations 2015: England 25-13 Scotland Highlights
France might not be the ideal opposition for a title contender's final match, but Les Bleus have been as frustrating and underwhelming as ever this year.
England have not won the title since 2011 but, against an underachieving French side, they will be hopeful of ending that wait.
Stuart Lancaster's side must beat the French by a sufficient margin that if Ireland beat Scotland, England's current four-point advantage over the Irish is not eroded - and that, of course, assumes Wales have not hammered Italy.
If the Irish and Welsh both lose their matches then the match at Twickenham effectively becomes a title decider.
England and France will have the advantage of knowing what they have to do to win the title - and although England will be favourites, should both Wales and Ireland lose next Saturday, then France could pull off the unlikeliest of title heists.
Full details of Wales' Test matches
BBC Sport will bring you comprehensive coverage of the Six Nations on TV, radio and online.
Find out the full list of award winners
Thu 19 March, 20:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Fri 20 March, 17:45 GMT, BBC Red Button
Sat 21 Mar, 08:40 GMT, BBC Two
Sat 21 Mar, 12:10 GMT, BBC One
Sat 21 Mar, 14:25 GMT, BBC One
Sat 21 Mar, 16:30 GMT, BBC One
Sat 21 Mar, 17:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Sat 21 Mar, 19:00 GMT, BBC Red Button
Catch up with Ski Sunday on the BBC
How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign
