http://www.huffingtonpost.com/karly-campbell/spinach-artichoke-dip_b_6093618.html
Spinach Artichoke Dip
The BEST Spinach Artichoke Dip -- easy, creamy, cheesy, and melty!
If I had to choose just one food group to eat for the rest of my life, it would be dip. You know, if dip were a food group.
I'm obsessed. I don't know if it's just because dip is fun or what. I mean, the act of dipping one delicious thing, such as a tortilla chip, into another delicious food, such as spinach artichoke dip, is totally more exciting than using a fork or spoon. Am I right?

Anyway, I don't want to brag or anything, but this spinach artichoke dip? It's the one. It's my favorite and I love it with my whole heart.
It's creamy and flavorful and gooey and melty. I know how y'all feel about gooey, melty foods. You're going to love this, aren't ya?

Now, I would like to remind you all that this recipe is titled Spinach Artichoke Dip. That means it is full of spinach and artichokes. So...healthy? Yes. I mean, it's vegetables! You can't go wrong with vegetables. You shut your mouth about the mayonnaise and cream cheese. Shh. The veggies cancel out the cheese.
So, basically what I'm saying is, go eat this. Riiiiiiiiight now. Then come back and leave me love letters because I brought this delicious dip into your life.

Spinach Artichoke Dip Recipe Ingredients:
8 ounces cream cheese, room temperature 1/4 cup mayonnaise (try Greek yogurt, if you're a mayo hater) 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese 1/2 cup grated mozzarella cheese 2 cloves garlic, finely diced 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper 14 ounce can artichoke hearts, diced 1/2 cup frozen chopped spinach, thawed tortilla chips, crackers, Hawaiian rolls, for serving
Directions:
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. In a large mixing bowl, combine the cream cheese, mayo, Parmesan, mozzarella, garlic, salt and pepper. Beat with a mixer on medium speed until well combined. Stir in the artichoke hearts and spinach. Spread into an 8x8 or 9x9 baking dish and bake for 20 minutes or until heated through and the cheese is melted.
Butterfinger Fruit Dip
Skinny Poolside Dip
Creamy Bacon Parmesan Dip
Slow Cooker Sloppy Joe Dip

