http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/06/20/heat-spurs-game-7-live-updates-lebron-duncan_n_3474492.html
Heat, Spurs Game 7 LIVE UPDATES: LeBron James, Tim Duncan Face Off In NBA Finals Finale In Miami
The 2013 NBA Finals comes down to this: Game 7. Either LeBron James and the Heat will win back-to-back NBA titles or Tim Duncan will be hoisting the Larry O'Brien Trophy for the fifth time in his illustrious career.
Miami Heat vs. San Antonio Spurs AmericanAirlines Arena Miami, Fla. 9:00 PM ET, June 20, 2013 The Heat forced a winner-take-all seventh game by winning an instant classic in Game 6. Ray Allen capped Miami's improbable fourth-quarter rally with a game-tying three-pointer that forced overtime. Despite leading by five points with just 28 seconds remaining in regulation play (and potentially in the series), the Spurs ended up losing in overtime.
"I have no clue how we're going to be re-energized. I'm devastated," Ginobili said after the series-extending loss, via the Associated Press. "But we have to. There's no Game 8 afterward."
The Heat-Spurs series has been a roller coaster ride, filled with clutch shots, surprising performances and blowouts. Through six games, neither team won consecutive games. The Heat aim to change that in front of their fans in Miami -- provided they stay until the end of the game. Meanwhile, Gregg Popovich and the Spurs will look to keep that trend going.
"The best two words in team sports. Game Seven," Spoelstra said after Game 6.
Scroll down for live updates, photos and highlights.

LeBron James: joins Bill Russell & Michael Jordan as only players in NBA history to win back-to-back regular season MVPs and NBA titles.
LeBron finished with 37 points on 12/23 shooting, 12 rebounds, 4 assists and 2 steals.
Wade had 23 points and 10 rebounds.
Tim Duncan led the Spurs with 24 points. He also had 10 rebounds. Leonard had 19 points and 16 rebounds. Ginobili had 18.

Congratulations also to the Spurs. Devastated for them. They were great, and are great. They are legends. Just not quite enough tonight.
The @MiamiHEAT are the 2013 NBA Champions, defeating the @Spurs 95-88. pic.twitter.com/Af3W8nKGZi

Gregg Popovich is all smiles as he hugs Wade and LeBron. What a classy guy.
Heat win their second straight title in a row. Miami wins Game 7, 95-88.
Ginobili missed a long 3-pointer and Wade got the rebound. Heat fans are celebrating.
Tony Parker wasn't even on the floor on that last possession. LeBron made both free throws. 94-88 Heat.
Ginobili drove to the basket, left his feet and had nobody to pass it to. Turnover. He passed it right to LeBron who was guarding Timmy. 23.5 seconds left. LeBron was fouled right away.

Best. Player. On. Earth.
LeBron curls around a screen and buries a long 2 over Leonard. Great shot. 92-88 Heat with 27.9 seconds left.

Biggest miss of Duncan's career.

Once a generation moment we're about to see.

Just madness.

Patrick Ewing style there
Tim Duncan got the ball down low and had an open look in the paint but missed off the back of the rim. Heat call timeout with 39 seconds remaining.
Leonard missed a 3 from the left wing and the ball went out of bounds. 1:25 left in the game.
Chalmers drove into the paint and drew a foul on Danny Green. But he missed BOTH free throws.
Leonard got the ball out on the right wing and he knocked down a 3 to cut the lead to 90-88. Under 2 minutes to play.
Wade got into the paint, received a pass from Wade and made a tough rightly layup. Duncan missed a shot on the other end. Heat taking their time now. 90-85 Heat.

Spurs absorbing every punch the Heat throw. Unbelievable resolve

The Spurs are bad-asses. Had multiple chances to fold in this game and kept fighting back. Huge hearts, I really respect them. What a game.

If I was a fan of either of these teams, pretty sure I'd be heaving up dinner by now.
Crazy sequence. Timmy turned the ball over right to Chalmers and that led to another 3-pointer in the corner by Battier. But the Spurs pushed the ball and found Duncan down low. He drew a foul on Bosh and made a shot off the glass. That's 5 on Bosh. Duncan made the free throw to make it 88-85 Heat. Spoelstra calls timeout with 3:06 left.
Spurs continue to give LeBron some cushion and he buries another long 2. He has 33. But Ginobili knocked down a looooong 3-pointer to cut the lead to 85-82.
Chris Bosh was left open in the corner and he airballed a 3-pointer. Just awful. On the other end, Parker found Duncan underneath the basket and he was fouled on a shot. He made both free throws. 83-79 Heat.
Tim Duncan missed a shot in the paint off the back of the rim and then Ginobili committed a loose ball foul.
LeBron is shooting 10/19 from the field with 31 points, 9 rebounds, 3 assists (including 5/9 from 3-point range)

Still a long way to go, but Miami has had more players play well than Spurs. And has the best player on Earth. Sometimes it's simple.

Think Pop can see it slipping away on the last Manu turnover. Held his head in his hand for a few extra seconds.
