http://us.rd.yahoo.com/sports/rss/mls/SIG=134gfs2ol/*http%3A//sports.yahoo.com/news/united-behind-matas-2-goals-defeats-liverpool-2-203225846--sow.html
Suarez gives Barca win over Madrid, United beats Liverpool
BARCELONA, Spain (AP) -- Luis Suarez scored to lead Barcelona to a 2-1 victory over rival Real Madrid in the Spanish league on Sunday, and Steven Gerrard was sent off in Liverpool's 2-1 loss to Manchester United in England.
Suarez answered Cristiano Ronaldo's tying goal, helping Barcelona extend its lead over its main title challenger at the top of the La Liga standings.
Here is a look at Europe's major domestic leagues on Sunday:
---
SPAIN
Barcelona opened a four-point lead over Madrid with 10 rounds remaining in the league race.
Lionel Messi's perfect free kick set up Jeremy Mathieu's header for the Barcelona goal in the 19th minute of a first half otherwise dominated by Madrid. Ronaldo then got the tying score in the 31st off a superb backheel pass from Karim Benzema.
But Suarez finally broke free from Madrid's defense to meet Dani Alve's long pass in the 56th, and the hosts never looked back after he scored his 14th and by far his biggest goal since joining Barcelona from Liverpool this summer.
''That was my most important goal I have scored for Barcelona, and it has an extra significance considering the opponent,'' Suarez said.
Sevilla beat Villarreal 2-0 to stay within striking distance of the top four teams.
Real Sociedad rallied for a 3-1 win over Cordoba, while Deportivo La Coruna's winless run reached six games after drawing 0-0 at home with Espanyol.
---
ENGLAND
Juan Mata scored two goals for Manchester United, but its win over rival Liverpool was overshadowed by Gerrard's red card.
United led 1-0 at Anfield when Gerrard stamped on Ander Herrera's leg only 32 seconds after coming off the bench at the start of the second half. Even with a man-advantage, United was made to fight for its 2-1 victory.
Mata added to his first-half goal with a scissor kick, and Liverpool threatened a comeback after striker Daniel Sturridge scored.
But United held on to move five points ahead of Liverpool for the fourth and final Champions League qualification place, prompting a swift apology from Gerrard.
''I have let my team mates and manager down today,'' Gerrard said. ''Even more importantly I let all the supporters down.''
At the top, Chelsea remains six points ahead of Manchester City with a game in hand after edging Hull 3-2.
After Eden Hazard and Diego Costa scored in the opening nine minutes for Chelsea, Hull scored twice in 74 seconds. But Loic Remy grabbed a second-half winner shortly after coming off the bench.
---
GERMANY
Bayern Munich fell to a rare home loss after a poor display from Germany goalkeeper Manuel Neuer helped Borussia Moenchengladbach to a 2-0 win at the Bundesliga leader.
Raffael scored both goals as the visitors outplayed the home side to reclaim third place.
Neuer let Raffael's harmless-looking shot squirm through his fingers in the 30th, and allowed another centrally placed shot from the Brazilian midfielder slip under his body in the 77th.
Bayern leads the Bundesliga by 10 points with eight games remaining.
Luiz Gustavo's second-half strike salvaged a 1-1 draw for Wolfsburg at Mainz.
---
ITALY
Carlos Tevez scored again to help Juventus beat Genoa 1-0 in Serie A and maintain its 14-point advantage over Roma, which earned a 1-0 victory at Cesena.
Daniele De Rossi gave Roma its first league victory in six matches. It remained a point ahead of city rival Lazio, which beat Hellas Verona 2-0.
Sampdoria leapfrogged Napoli into fourth with a 1-0 win over Inter Milan. Napoli drew 1-1 at home against 10-man Atalanta, while Fiorentina also dropped points in the race for a Champions League spot, drawing 2-2 at Udinese.
Crisis-hit Parma lost 2-0 to Torino while Empoli beat Sassuolo 3-1.
---
FRANCE
Belgian forward Michy Batshuayi scored two goals as third-place Marseille beat Lens 4-0 to move within one point of Lyon and two back of leader Paris Saint-Germain in a hard-fought French title race.
Teenage striker Anthony Martial scored his fourth league goal in the last three games as Monaco won 3-1 at Reims.
Also, Ivory Coast winger Max-Alain Gradel scored both goals in Saint-Etienne's 2-0 home win against Lille.
Fifth-place Saint-Etienne is one point behind Monaco, having played one game more, and is four clear of sixth-place Bordeaux.
