http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/612402/s/4464decb/sc/8/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Cboxing0C114728220CMichael0EWatson0Efighting0Efit0Eat0Efifty0Eas0Ehe0Erecalls0Edramatic0EChris0EEubank0Efight0Ethat0Enearly0Ecost0Ehis0Elife0Bhtml/story01.htm
Michael Watson fighting fit at fifty as he recalls dramatic Chris Eubank fight that nearly cost his life
By Gareth A Davies, Boxing Correspondent
10:00PM GMT 14 Mar 2015
Comments
It is 24 years since Michael Watson suffered horrific, near-fatal brain injuries, a blood clot forming on his brain minutes after his world title fight with Chris Eubank at the home of Tottenham Hotspur, White Hart Lane.
It was a medical miracle when he survived then. It is still a miracle today, as Watson celebrates his 50th birthday.
Sitting at a lunch organised by The Telegraph at The Blue Legume, one of his favourite café restaurants in a gentrified parade in Hackney close to where he grew up, Watson’s hair is greying, but that beaming smile and his peaceful, friendly presence still radiates vitality.

Taking it on the chin: Michael Watson with surgeon Peter Hamlyn
Sitting beside Watson is Peter Hamlyn, the consultant neurosurgeon who carried out five operations, all of them life-saving after the former boxer’s brain went into horrific turns and twists with the trauma he had suffered. The two men will share a lifelong bond. They have altered each other’s lives ineradicably.
Hamlyn believes Watson has changed the course of medical care for sportspeople. He was also, recalls Hamlyn, God-like in his physical strength.
“When I first met Michael, getting through the first 24 minutes was going to be touch and go. Twenty-four years is, well, just an enduring miracle.
“The first morning, when I went on to the ITU (critical care unit), and I saw you lying there,” he turns to Watson and says, “physically, you looked like some Greek God”. Watson just smiled back. The two men paused and felt the emotion of the occasion.
“Michael was one of the best physical specimens I’ve ever seen. An incredible body. There was no fat on him — just lean muscle,” added Hamlyn, talking of a fighter, who, in his athletic prime and aged 26, had just been through 11 rounds against another specimen in Eubank, in their second encounter. Watson had floored Eubank that round, but had then suffered a shuddering uppercut himself which saw him crumple into the ropes.

Friendly Rivalry: Watson and Chris Eubank
“He was massively muscled, an incredibly fit man. He was lying there on a ventilator but still had a peace about him. I’m sure Mike only survived because he was so physically fit. He had a massive amount of health reserve.”
Watson has a different take on it. “I’ve always had a fighting spirit, and I know that’s what got me through it. I can remember fighting through a great tunnel. But it was also the love of people around me which has helped me, and great faith.”
The spirit was strong, but scientific minds had their doubts. “He spent longer on the edge between life and death than anybody I’ve ever met, by miles,” added Hamlyn. “He was in ITU for months. He had five operations, each one of them life saving. It involved taking off the blood clot, dealing with the brain swelling, more brain swelling, fluid channels being blocked up and needing the shunt, revising the shunts because they get blocked. It seemed like it would never end.
“To have survived and then to have triumphed over that degree of disability is amazing and unique,” added Hamlyn. “It had a big impact on me in terms of seeing families operate around illness — the way his mother reacted was an example to any family facing that sort of trouble.”
Top honour: Watson collects his MBE in 2004
As for the ageing process, which worries some of those around Watson such as his permanent carer and friend Len Ballack, Hamlyn explained: “Some of us don’t age much, some of us age a lot. Terry Pratchett died at 66 from a brain disease he got at 56. I think our cards are written, and not by one-off brain injuries like Michael’s. I don’t know what cards Michael has been dealt for the rest of the race. But the injuries he sustained up to this point don’t have an impact.”
Watson takes his typically mystic view on reaching 50 — though he did go through a repertoire of combination punching when he stepped out onto the cobbles around the corner for the photographs.
“I don’t worry about getting older,” he says. “Age is only a number. It’s still day by day for me. Time does fly. I’m 50 years young. What has happened to me has made me a better person. I’m a lot stronger and it has changed my personality for the better. It’s given me more love and concern for other people, especially the helpless. I was a tearaway growing up.” What happened to Watson, explained Hamlyn, led the way for major changes in the whole of sport.
“The important thing about Michael’s injury and why it changed the whole sport is because when the fight finished he was still awake. He was standing there saying he wanted to carry on.
“What that tells you is that there was no significant brain injury when they stopped the fight. He was still standing and he was still protesting. What happened was he was damaged by the blood clot. And because it took a long time to sort that out, it got more damaged. The blood clot formed in those minutes after the fight.”
Watson the menu? Michael Watson celebrates his 50th birthday at his favourite restaurant
“When I met Michael, I had already removed blood clots, the same as Michael’s, from the brains of two other boxers. I had been trained by professor Sid Watkins, who was the Formula One doctor. I then encounter Michael and see that the medicine that was being delivered to these boxers was so poor compared to the medicine I was helping deliver to Formula One.
Michael survived and went on to take on the Board of Control in the court case, which laid out, for the governing bodies of all sports, in all parts of the world, that they had to be responsible for the medical provisions for their sportsmen and women.
“And if you look today at the medical standards that you see in rugby, football, horse racing, they have all been driven by the decision of Michael Watson’s case and the standard laid down by Sid Watkins. I think, between them, those two individuals, who never met, brought about a sea change in sports medicine that we see today. There’s still work to do, but we’re seen an amazing degree of change.” On April 23, at The Park Lane Hotel, boxing legends ‘Marvelous’ Marvin Hagler, Eubank, Joe Calzaghe, Dave Haye and former England footballer Rio Ferdinand will come together at a dinner to celebrate Watson’s 50th birthday and raise money for his future with a donation to the Teenage Cancer Trust, for whom Watson is a patron.
And Watson’s future? “People don’t want to see me fall flat. I’m lucky to have been seen as the people’s champion. I don’t need money to be a survivor. I’m a born survivor.” There’s not a man alive who would dispute that. Happy 50th birthday Mr Watson.
To attend the dinner or buy at table of 10 in celebration of Michael Watson’s 50th birthday, email Geraldine Davies at MichaeWatsonMBE@aol.com.
