http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/612402/s/444d9695/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Cboxing0Cmayweather0Evs0Epacquiao0C114662330CFloyd0EMayweather0Ev0EManny0EPacquiao0Epress0Econference0EFive0Ethings0Ewe0Elearnt0Bhtml/story01.htm
Floyd Mayweather v Manny Pacquiao press conference: Five things we learnt
By Gareth A Davies
6:50AM GMT 12 Mar 2015
Comments
• Mayweather v Pacquiao - How richest-ever fight was made • Pacquiao records entrance song for Mayweather clash • Mayweather and Pacquiao to face-off on March 11 • Video - Mayweather vs Pacquiao by numbers • Gareth A Davies - Mayweather lands first psychological blow • Watch: Highlights of Mayweather-Pacquiao press conference
1. Floyd Mayweather remains a master of psychology, and gained the upper hand, yet with no trash-talk involved. The barb was subtle. "May 2, the fight of the century, the best against the best. And Manny Pacquiao is one of the best of this era." Nice. "I know one thing about sport, and if you lose, it's in your mind. I have always been a winner." Another little dig. Perhaps because Mayweather has much more to lose with that 47-0 record.
Mayweather delivered his barbs without resorting to trash talk. AP
2. Manny Pacquiao is about the people, still, and not so much about himself. He's leaving the outcome in God's hands, even though it will be his hands doing the work on the night. "I just want the fans to be satisfied," said Pacquiao. "The fans of boxing were waiting for this for five years. We are both going to train hard and we will do our best on May 2 to make you happy."
Manny Pacquiao is the people's favourite. REUTERS
3. There is great respect between the two fighters. It was classy. The two men, both dressed in suits, faced off, calm and serious. There were no smiles, but little tension. No pushing and shoving either.

4. Mayweather is fighting Bob Arum's Top Rank as much as he is Pacquiao. And Arum loves to push the buttons of the Mayweather clan. He nodded to the fact that Floyd Mayweather Snr was looking at him steely-eyed. And the first thing Arum did was shake hands on the stage with Floyd Jr. "Missed me, Floyd?" said Arum, who does most of the talking when it comes to the fiery stuff.
Bob Arum (second left) does most of the talking for Pacquiao. AFP
5. The fight is just getting bigger and bigger. It has a massive feel about it. There were 700 media credentials issued for the press conference alone, with hysteria on the red carpet arrivals. Arum believes it will be the "biggest night in Las Vegas history" for sport. Certainly the richest. The event could now gross closer to $350 million US dollars, $100 million more than was originally thought. Even Mayweather seemed a little nervous when speaking at the dias. Huge events have a habit of doing that to people. And it's only going to get bigger in the next seven weeks...

Mayweather's shadow, Justin Bieber, popped up on stage. EPA

