http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/612402/s/4444e152/sc/7/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Cboxing0Cmayweather0Evs0Epacquiao0C1146370A40CManny0EPacquiao0Eand0EFloyd0EMayweather0Eface0Eoff0Ein0ELA0Epress0Econference0Eahead0Eof0Erichest0Efight0Ein0Eboxing0Ehistory0Bhtml/story01.htm
Manny Pacquiao and Floyd Mayweather face off in LA press conference ahead of richest fight in boxing history
By Gareth A Davies, Boxing Correspondent
10:42AM GMT 11 Mar 2015
Comments
•Mayweather v Pacquiao, LA press conference: live (from 8pm GMT) •Mayweather v Pacquiao - How richest-ever fight was made •Pacquiao records entrance song for Mayweather clash •Mayweather and Pacquiao to face-off on March 11 •Video - Mayweather vs Pacquiao by numbers
Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao will make their one public appearance together at a press conference today in Los Angeles (8pm GMT) to get the ball rolling on the richest fight in boxing history.
The much-anticipated clash will have a shared purse of $250 million and is scheduled for May 2 in Las Vegas.
The face-off between the two men, as the news conference draws to a close, will be replayed time and again after this event, and every pundit in the sport will come away with a view on which side has garnered the momentum.

It will be the only time they come face to face until fight week, both sides having decided to forego the media tour of several cities which is normally a part of these pay-per-view Box Office fight events.
Perhaps they are right. This fight is so big, has been talked about so much already, there was barely the need to publicise it over a number of days when they could be in camp.
Yet it will come as no surprise if their respective trainers, Freddie Roach and Floyd Mayweather Snr, trade more verbal punches than the two pugilists when the two teams settle down on their sides of the dais at the Nokia Live Theatre.
Pacquiao in training ahead of the superfight. AP
Roach and Roger Mayweather, Floyd's uncle and another member of his training team, may well be the loudest voices, the dislike for each other dating back to 2007 when Floyd fought Oscar De La Hoya, in another blockbuster.
But this coming together may be the establishing of ground rules, looking to establish the upper hand in some way. At any rate, the world will be watching and craning its neck to see whether one side walks away today with an early advantage.
The making of "Money" versus Manny dates back to 2009, when talks first began, but arguments over drug-testing and the details scuppered talks twice.
But the egos have been soothed, rival promoters have come together - Mayweather and his old impresario Bob Arum - and respective rival broadcasters HBO and Showtime have put down their swords for the betterment of the sport, and, of course, an obscene amount of money which is going to be generated.
Mayweather has been spotted mingling with Rihanna. GETTY IMAGES
Eleven-time, five-division world champion Floyd Mayweather (47-0, 26 KO's) and eight-division world champion Manny Pacquiao (57-5-2, 38 KO's) are both fascinating studies. Mayweather is the most highly-paid athlete on earth, and his career earnings will rise to over half a billion US dollars from this contest. Million dollar bets on his favourite sports teams are not unusual.
In boxing terms, he is a defensive master, as his unbeaten record shows. But he has also been cannily matched in the last eight years of his 19-year career, picking off the biggest names just as they are beginning to slide, or before they are at their peak. But he is, nonetheless, a brilliant boxer. He's also the bad boy, with a reputation he uses to enhance his following and his haters. He has a brilliance and X-factor in the way he markets himself.
Pacquiao, brought up in poverty, is a Congressman in his country, and, in many ways, has captured the hearts of Americans, as well as being adored as the most popular Filipino alive by his countrymen.
The South East Asia fighter has already recorded a patriotic ringwalk song - 'Lalaban Ako Para sa Pilipino' (I Am Going to Fight for Filipinos) which was written by composer, and frequent songwriting collaborator, Lito Camo.

There may be little said in anger between the pair, after the mutual respect that was shown between them when they met face to face at a Miami Heat basketball game in January, the impromptu tete-a-tete being the catalyst to finishing the on-off talks to get the fight signed.
Roach has already expressed concern that Mayweather will try to get into Pacquiao's head, the Filipino being unaccustomed to indulging in street smarts with his opponents, and has claimed that the American's advisers have been sabotaging their preparation.
But most of it is talk. The real matter is how they look together, and who looks to say what, when and to whom, laying down the ground rules until they meet again in seven weeks' time, after intense training camps in Los Angeles (Pacquiao) and Las Vegas (Mayweather).
