http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604246/s/3d1d1113/sc/7/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Ccommonwealthgames0C110A0A76120CEnglands0EChris0Eand0EGabby0EAdcock0Ewins0Ebattle0Eof0Eex0Epartners0Eto0Ereach0Emixed0Edoubles0Efinal0Ein0EGlasgow0Bhtml/story01.htm
England's Chris and Gabby Adcock wins 'battle of ex-partners' to reach mixed doubles final in Glasgow
By Rod Gilmour, in Glasgow
10:59AM BST 02 Aug 2014
Comments
In the end, it was the schedule that did for the Scots. Chris and Gabby Adcock, England’s husband and wife pairing, made full use of a less-than-boisterous atmosphere to see off their gritty Scottish rivals, Imogen Bankier and Robert Blair, to reach Sunday’s Commonwealth Games mixed doubles final.
Chris Adcock stopped just short of saying it was the perfect game in his post-match analysis, but he and wife Gabby, the No.1 seeds, played 35 minutes of faultless badminton, winning 21-14, 21-14.
The Adcocks will now meet another all-English pair in Sunday’s final after Chris Langridge and Heather Oliver beat Peng Soon Chan and Jing Lai Pei, of Malaysia, 21-15, 20-22, 21-13.
“We played a pretty solid game,” said Adcock. “You can never play the perfect game but we were tactically solid and gave them hardly anything. It was a great performance and we managed to get on top of them mentally.
“This was a big occasion with a few different situations flying around with the ex-partners and things. But we came out with a point to prove and we achieved that.
Sharp digs in to claim silver
Des Lynam: BBC's Games coverage is Partridge-esque
Glasgow 2014 schedule: Day 10
Joyce ready to take centre stage
Marshall ready to go for gold
Commonwealth Games day 11: as it happened
Indeed, this 9am grudge match had so many sub-plots that you needed to get up at dawn just to be filled in on the quartet’s history both on and off court in recent years.
Chris Adcock used to play with his wife before she was unceremoniously axed by team bosses, with Bankier then forming a successful partnership which saw them win World Championship silver in 2011. The pair split after a poor Olympics before the Adcocks, who married last year, reformed.
There was also the infamous Twitter spat prior to the Olympics when Bankier started an after lunch war of words with: “Why can English people not serve?!” It culminated with Jenny Wallwork, a former GB player, telling the Glaswegian to “jog on back to Scotland”. The pair apologised and Bankier later stressed that “it was just banter that got out of control”.
Blair’s history goes back to the Delhi Games when he was omitted from the squad. He had originally switched allegiance to England in 2001 before the Edinburgh-born player was banned from the GB National training centre in Milton Keynes in another low point for British badminton.
And so to this morning’s semi-final start, which simply hindered the Scottish pairing.
The Scots were looking for vociferous local backing, but it never came as the Glaswegians settled into their seats during the first game, rather than create a din.
The English pairing raced out of the blocks, creating space with deft drops and clever lifts leaving the Scottish pair on the back foot and out of position.
The only bit of needle came in the second game when Blair hit Gabby Adcock on the shoulder with a vicious smash.
The only mix-up between this gifted and rhythmic married couple came a point later when Gabby was caught in two minds at the back of the court and hit into the net.
“We came out really well and stuck to the plan,” Gabby Adcock said afterwards. “We managed to keep our cool as it was quite tense out there.
“We knew we were a quicker pair than them so we wanted to use our speed, play soft shots at the same time, moving quick and laying it off in the gaps was our plan and we managed to do that well.
“Maybe they were nervous playing here. I wouldn’t say they were sluggish. We had more games than them.”
“This shows the strength in depth right now in English badminton,” added Chris Adcock of the all-English final.
