http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/640204/s/43c0bce0/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cbarcelona0C1143340A60CBarcelonas0E450Am0Estrike0Eforce0Eshow0Ehow0Efar0Ebehind0EMan0ECity0Eremain0Bhtml/story01.htm
Barcelona's £450m strike force show how far behind Man City remain
By Paul Hayward, at the Etihad Stadium
9:54PM GMT 24 Feb 2015
Comments
However fancy the Manchester City set-up, however grand their aims, the stomach is bound to churn at the sight of a £450 million attacking prong in shirts as luminous as their talents. All teams enter the Casino de Barcelona when Lionel Messi and company come to town.
City’s second-half fightback could not conceal Barcelona’s first-half superiority, Messi’s majesty or the likelihood that Manuel Pellegrini’s men will advance no further than this round of 16. Pellegrini was adamant that 4-4-2 was the right weapon against football’s most illustrious trio. His results against them – three consecutive defeats – suggest otherwise.
Luis Suárez is the third biggest name in the Barcelona forward triumvirate but he was the first on to the scoresheet with an obligatory goal against Joe Hart. Where have we seen that before? In São Paulo, where he returned from a month out with a knee injury to end England's World Cup. To extend that symmetry, Suárez put a second one beyond the England goalkeeper on 29 minutes after Messi had flashed across the City penalty area and guided the ball to Jordi Alba to cross.
City 0 Suárez 2, with less than half an hour gone. And this after three successive errors from the Premier League’s best player in 2013-14 had raised doubts about his form. Even Suárez looked exasperated. But help was at hand, from Vincent Kompany, who made a mess of a Messi chip into the box, which then fell to Suárez to slam past Hart.
With Sergio Agüero fit in City colours, and David Silva present, this was surely the most star-studded game to be played on this turf. But there was no mistaking the imbalance in Barcelona’s favour. Their front line is almost gaudy – or Gaudí – and would have no place for Edin Dzeko, who started alongside Agüero in a high-risk City XI.
City must improve in Europe to satisfy owner, says Clichy
City fan: Neymar 'unprofessional' to react to me
Pellegrini: Blame the players, not my tactics
Manchester City vs Barcelona: as it happened
The key to the game, every pundit said, was whether City's deployment two strikers would concede midfield superiority to Luis Enrique’s team. With Messi dropping deep to shape the attacks, we soon had our answer, as Fernando and James Milner laboured to stop Barcelona’s greased moves through the middle. On City’s right, Alba was a constant menace.
The Barcelona trident have been responsible for 70 goals this season: 37 of them from Messi, who missed a penalty in added time (his fifth miss in 10 games for club and country). Whatever the truth about friction between him and the manager (the little megastar was rested against Real Sociedad, against his wishes), or a casino trip the night before the flight to Manchester, Messi asserted his ball-carrying brilliance without difficulty here.
As Liverpool found when Ronaldo visited Anfield, the greatest players can make fine players look feeble, good teams turn grey. You could see Messi fancying the way City were set up. It offered him avenues to run down, runs to pick out, bursts of magic to inflict. And none of us can know how it feels to play in a forward line where there are two other world-class players to complete the job if necessary.
There they were: numbers nine, 10 and 11, all in fluorescent shirts. The high-rollers. At a conservative estimate it would cost £450 million to buy all three: Messi, Neymar and Suárez, who should have known he would be third, at best, on the Barcelona VIP list. Fourth if you count Andrés Iniesta. Or Xavi, or Gerard Piqué. The best card he holds, though, is that he is a natural centre-forward, unlike Messi or Neymar, and can go bump for bump with the likes of Kompany and Martin Demichelis.
Below boardroom level, where they raided the Nou Camp brains trust, the closest City can get to this level of destructive creativity is Silva and Agüero. But to see Milner and Fernando as the two central midfielders in a game of this difficulty is the best indication of the continuing gap between the sides.
If Luis Enrique's Barcelona players do not like his methods it did not show. EPA
With such a deficit, it takes great tactical management or inspirational leadership to nullify superior individual talent. In nine seasons in Spain, Pellegrini managed only four wins against Barcelona. His overall record was played 22, won four, drawn four, lost 14.
Malaga’s shock win over Barca at the weekend (and those casino pics) may have encouraged Pellegrini to believe his guests would be vulnerable. Both events were more likely to heighten their concentration. Before the Malaga upset Barcelona had won their 11 previous fixtures.
City started the second-half with more intent, more counter-attacking thrust. Barcelona responded as they always do, with clock-burning possession, and spurts of activity. City went back to being a tough Premier League team, no longer bamboozled by Catalan artistry. On 67 minutes they unleashed Wilfried Bony, bought for £25 million because Dzeko and Stefan Jovetic had not supported Agüero well enough.
Contrast that emergency spending with the evolution of Barcelona’s forward line. Best player in Argentina, best in Brazil, best in Uruguay. Three ultra-safe bets. At least Agüero is in that class. His brilliant top-corner drive on 69 minutes brought the game back to life.
An impressive counter-surge at 2-0 down displays tenacity in chasing a lost cause. But City, who lost Gaël Clichy to a second yellow card on 73 minutes, want to be at the exalted level where games are dominated, not chased. They are not there yet. Few are, against Suárez, Neymar and Messi.
