http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/640204/s/43c0bf01/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Ccompetitions0Cchampions0Eleague0C114331120CManchester0ECity0Ev0EBarcelona0EChampions0ELeague0Eplayer0Eratings0EBrilliant0ELuis0ESuarez0Eedges0Eout0ESergio0EAguero0Bhtml/story01.htm
Manchester City v Barcelona, Champions League player ratings: Brilliant Luis Suarez edges out Sergio Aguero
By Chris Bascombe, Etihad Stadium
9:45PM GMT 24 Feb 2015
Comments
Manchester City
Joe Hart Luis Suárez must have mistaken Hart for John Ruddy. He’s haunting him as much as he did the Norwich keeper. Hart was left exposed by first-half shambles in front of him, only a great save on 26 minutes denied Suárez a first-half hat-trick. 7/10
Pablo Zabaleta Barely had an opportunity to support his attack, instead having an assortment of Neymar and Suárez drifting wide to overlap him. He looks a world beater in the Premier League, but Europe has not seen him at his best. 5
Vincent Kompany It’s difficult to sustain the argument that Kompany is the best defender in Europe given his Champions League history. Run ragged by Suárez in the first half, claimed an unwanted assist for the striker’s 15th-minute opener. 5
Martín Demichelis The most consistent of the City defenders, but there wasn't much help. It needed his great tackle to deny Lionel Messi on 11 minutes but that was a temporary reprieve. 6
Hart keeps City alive after Suarez double
Barcelona's £450m strikers prove gulf in class
Manchester City vs Barcelona: as it happened
Bad Kompany - Man City captain is in decline
Gaël Clichy Hearing you’re going to mark Messi must be like fitting in the removal of tonsils, wisdom teeth and kidney stones – all within the space of 90 minutes. Red carded for two yellows. 5
Fernando City fans did not know whether to criticise or sympathise with their central midfielders. Manuel Pellegrini’s weird tactics left them so exposed, their hamstrings must be strained with all the chasing. 6
Samir Nasri Like Silva, he can offer an extra body in the centre when City are purring, but without the ball he spent most of the night having to track back. Subbed early in second half. 6
James Milner Milner was asked to occupy a central midfield role that could become his for club and country long-term, but it was too much expecting him to replace Yaya Touré. 6
David Silva City could not get the ball to him for 45 minutes. Silva should have been used as the No10 in a more compact system, but his class ensured he grew into the game. 7
Edin Dzeko Despite his impressive game against Newcastle, this was not the right game for Dzeko in the exposed 4-4-2. He should have been able to bully the diminiutive Javier Mascherano but a tame header from six yards summed his night up. 5
Sergio Agüero The head-to-head with Suárez could not have started any worse, but Agüero looked sharp and as likely as anyone to contribute as shown by a brilliant finish to lift hopes. 8
Substitutes: Fernandinho for Nasri. An odd change which kept the 4-4-2 intact, but it had some impact. 6 Wilfried Bony for Dzeko. Dzeko left 67 minutes too late, and the new signing's arrival offered some momentum. 6
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Barcelona
Marc-Andre Ter Stegen He was summoned for his first save on 45 minutes, until then he might as well have taken his smartphone on to the pitch and tweeted live updates. Busier second half. 6
Dani Alves There are suggestions Alves’ powers are fading, but it’s not so obvious. Hit the bar on 44 minutes with what was probably an attempted cross but also booked for late lunge on Agüero before half-time. 7
Javier Mascherano The most unlikely centre-half in the game continued to thrive at first, but had to be moved into midfield as City finally gained some momentum after half time. 6
Gerard Pique As much the start of the attack as a centre-half. Despite facing two centre-forwards he had as much space as anyone to pick out his targets. Had more to deal with in early stages of second-half as entirety of the first. 7
Jordi Alba Might have considered this a tricky encounter given the combinations of Zabaleta and Nasri, but there so little attacking threat in the first half he strolled through. 7
Sergio Busquets Always available for a pass, always in position to reclaim possession. Plenty has changed from the Guardiola era at the Nou Camp, but while Busquets remains not too much. 7
Ivan Rakitic Not quite Xavi, but as comfortable in possession as is compulsory for any Barcelona player. Steady rather than spectacular, but probably a manager’s favourite for the balance he provides. 6
Andres Iniesta Iniesta continued his record run of having misplaced just one of the (estimated) 30,915 passes he has delivered against English teams since his first game against Premier League opponents. 7
Luis Suárez The boos from City fans seemed to have revitalised Suárez. He did what he always does for and against English teams. Scored, and then scored again. Should have had the match ball by half-time. Brilliant. 9
Neymar Still looks more of individual talent than a player fully integrated into the Barcelona system. Has a gift for the extraordinary, but the ‘Brazilian Messi’ tag does him no favours. 7
Lionel Messi Mesmerising Messi. If his powers have been affected by injury for the past 12 months, he looks to be approaching full health again. City could not get near him, especially for Barça’s second goal. 8
Substitutes: Jérémy Mathieu for Rakitic. It was a compliment to City that Luis Enrique felt he had to make a change in his defence. 6 Pedro for Neymar. The World Cup-wnner looked to end the tie completely in the last 10 minutes. 6
