http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/571918/s/3f7a3e4d/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Ceuro0E20A160C111638980CAlbania0Eand0ESerbia0Eto0Ebe0Epunished0Eby0EUefa0Efor0Einexcusable0Eviolence0Esays0Epresident0EMichel0EPlatini0Bhtml/story01.htm
Serbia accuses Albania of 'terrorist action' with drone carrying flag as both countries charged by Uefa
By Ben Rumsby
7:25PM BST 15 Oct 2014
The Football Association of Serbia has accused Albania of orchestrating a deliberate "terrorist action" to force the abandonment of the countries' European Championship qualifier as it sought to deflect blame for its latest footballing shame.
On the same evening both nations were charged by Uefa over what its president branded "inexcusable" scenes in Belgrade, the FSS issued an extraordinary 1,400-word statement demanding that Serbia be awarded a 3-0 win for the fractious fixture.
Amid the threat of having to play future matches behind closed doors, the FSS claimed the radio-controlled drone that sparked a mass brawl involving players, officials and fans was operated by an Albanian sympathiser with the express aim of forcing Premier League referee Martin Atkinson to call off the Group I game.
Evoking memories of its risible response to the racist abuse directed at England's Danny Rose during an Under-21 match in Krusevac two years earlier, the FSS added credence to the Serbian Interior Ministry's allegation that the brother of the prime minister of Albania was in control of the drone dangling a politically-incendiary flag over the pitch.

Albania players 'physically attacked' by stewards
Why Serbia v Albania had to be abandoned
Dutch papers want Hiddink out after Iceland defeat
Germans ply anti-England scarves to Irish
Despite vehement denials from Olsi Rama, who also refuted that he had been arrested over the incident, Uefa charged the Albanian FA with "the display of an illicit banner".
That was after the FSS said: "FA of Serbia are aghast by the seen provocation and are afraid that this is scenario of a terrorist action planned in advance, above all directed against interests of our country, Republic of Serbia."
Tuesday night's violence represented the biggest footballing scandal yet to engulf Serbia, which could be forced to play next month's qualifier against Denmark behind closed doors.
As well as the FSS being twice fined for the racist chanting of its fans in Under-21 matches against England, it was also punished with a 3-0 defeat over the violence that erupted during Serbia's Euro 2012 qualifier in Italy four years ago.
The FSS has accepted minimal responsibility for the Belgrade brawl, ignited when Serbia player Stefan Mitrović grabbed the 'Greater Albania' flag, which depicted a map of an area that includes territory within his country.
It accused Albania's players of assaulting Mitrović as he folded the flag "as calmly as possible in order to give it to the fourth official and for the match to be continued".
It admitted its own supporters had "succumbed to the provocation" and vowed to press charges against those involved.
But it insisted its players had been willing to resume the game - suspended by Atkinson in the 41st minute - only for the Albanian team to refuse.
It said: "It is a scandalous fact that the other party, with their 'job well done', is ridiculing not only FA of Serbia and Serbian people but also, we dare to say, Uefa."
Referring to the alleged involvement of the brother of the Albanian prime minister and the celebrations in that country following the abandonment, it added: "Now we ask: how the world, many politicians, EU and Uefa representatives would react if such a crazy, shameless scenario was to happen in Albania and directed by our 'officials'?"
As well as the threat of behind-closed-doors matches, both teams' associations are likely to be hit by hefty fines.
Uefa could yet award Serbia a 3-0 victory in the fixture, having charged the Football Association of Albania with "refusing to play", despite one of its players saying: "We feared for our lives".
All but ruling out a replay, Uefa confirmed the return fixture in just under a year's time would go ahead but could take place at a neutral venue, rather than the Albanian city of Elbasan.
Platini said: "Football is supposed to bring people together and our game should not be mixed with politics of any kind. The scenes in Belgrade were inexcusable."
Fifa's president, Sepp Blatter, added: "Football should never be used for political messages. I strongly condemn what happened in Belgrade."
Relations between Serbia and Albania have been fragile over Kosovo - a former Serbian province - and the ethnic Albanian minority in southern Serbia, who often demand more autonomy.
However, neither of the countries' football associations asked Uefa to keep them apart in the Euro 2016 qualifying draw - something it did do with Spain and Gibraltar, as well as Russia and Ukraine.
The governing body would have separated Serbia and Albania had there been an ongoing armed conflict between them or the absence of normal diplomatic relations.
Ironically, Tuesday's violence erupted just days before Edi Rama was due to become the first Albanian president to visit Serbia for 68 years.
After the draw was made, each association asked Uefa to sanction the banning of away supporters at both group games, something it agreed to facilitate.
It also emerged that the Premier League was liaising with Football League over the potential threat of drones to games in England after the latter reported incidents during matches this season to the Civil Aviation Authority, which was investigating.
