http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/661268/s/44a1e4dc/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ctennis0Candymurray0C114869660CAndy0EMurray0Ev0ENovak0EDjokovic0EScot0Etries0Eto0Eplay0Edown0Etalk0Eof0Erift0Ewith0ESerb0Eahead0Eof0EIndian0EWells0Esemi0Efinal0Bhtml/story01.htm
Andy Murray v Novak Djokovic: Scot tries to play down talk of rift with Serb ahead of Indian Wells semi-final
By Simon Briggs
10:12PM GMT 20 Mar 2015
Comments
They may have known each other since the turn of the century, but relations between Andy Murray and Novak Djokovic – who will meet in Saturday’s semi-final at Indian Wells – have rarely been frostier.
Both men have done their best to talk down the after-effects of last month’s controversial final in Melbourne, where Djokovic gave the impression that he was cramping during the third set and Murray – to his own great fury and frustration – allowed himself to be sucked in.
Yet this was no manufactured row. You only had to look at the photograph, plastered over many of the UK’s front pages the following day, that showed Djokovic raising the trophy in the foreground while Murray glowered at him with the look of a man hell-bent on revenge.
Will Saturday’s match be payback time? If so, Murray will have to overturn recent history, because he has won only one of his last nine meetings with his old rival and contemporary, the Wimbledon final of 2013.
Murray beat Feliciano Lopez to reach the semi-finals
Speaking to the BBC after his quarter-final victory over Feliciano Lopez – a man he has now beaten in all 10 of their encounters – Murray tried to bat away any suggestion of extra tension. “I’ve seen Novak a few times since and I have absolutely no issues with Novak at all,” he said.
“Me saying I was distracted turned into this massive thing that me and Novak had some issue with each other, which is certainly not the case. That was done in my eyes after the final.”
Yet this is also the same Murray who said before his Australian Open semi-final that there was no edge between him and his former coaching assistant Dani Vallverdu. As soon as he won his first set against Tomas Berdych, Murray clenched his fist very pointedly in Vallverdu’s direction. We will see.
