http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/661268/s/42ddfce4/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ctennis0Cnovakdjokovic0C113789260CNovak0EDjokovic0Ebeats0EStan0EWawrinka0Ein0Efive0Esets0Eto0Eset0Eup0EAustralian0EOpen0Efinal0Eshowdown0Ewith0EAndy0EMurray0Bhtml/story01.htm
Novak Djokovic beats Stan Wawrinka in five sets to set up Australian Open final showdown with Andy Murray
By Simon Briggs, Tennis Correspondent, in Melbourne
12:20PM GMT 30 Jan 2015
Comments
As he prepares for Sunday's final against Novak Djokovic, Andy Murray can only have been encouraged by the scratchy standard of the second Australian Open semi-final in Melbourne, which Djokovic finally won in 3½ hours.
We are so used to seeing electrifying tennis from the leading men that it was a surprise when both Djokovic and Stan Wawrinka struggled for confidence and rhythm throughout their match.
There was one extraordinary period during the fourth set when the world No 1 felt so uncomfortable with his game that he settled for putting every ball back in the middle of the court – a tactic more often seen in your local leisure centre than on Rod Laver Arena in front of a capacity crowd.
Yet Djokovic is a ferociously competitive beast. He found a way to win, raising his level in the deciding set when he needed to, and we can expect him to come hard at Murray when the final starts at around 8.30am GMT on Sunday. Melbourne Park has, after all, become his personal precinct after his four titles in the last seven years.
“I did not play on the level that I intended before the match,” said Djokovic after his 7-6, 3-6, 6-4, 4-6, 6-0 victory. “There were parts of the match where I stepped in and played a game I needed to play, but parts of the match where I played too defensive and allowed him to dictate the play from the baseline. So, yeah, it was very emotional, very tense, as it always is against a top player in semi-finals of a grand slam.”
Murray makes his second coming a grand tale
Murray relishing another epic in 'DjokoStan III'
Swan digs deep to reach Australian Open girls’ final
What we learnt from Murray v Berdych
The result means Wawrinka – the defending champion here – will plummet down the rankings from No 4 to No 9. It was the third consecutive year that these two players had fought out a five-set match at the Australian Open, but the standard was nowhere near that of the 2013 and 2014 showdowns, and afterwards Wawrinka admitted that he had felt burned out before even stepping on court.
“It was not the best match, for sure,” he said. “It was mentally that I think I’m paying the price to finish off the season with Davis Cup, [and] not having a bigger off-season. I told my coach before the match and already yesterday that I was mentally completely dead – no battery.”
So “DjokoStan III” delivered plenty of narrative drama but not the spectacular strokeplay we are used to seeing from these two. And now the focus moves on to the latest instalment of Murray-Djokovic, a rivalry that dates back to their first meeting at the age of 12 in a junior tournament in Tarbes, France.
At senior level, Djokovic has opened up a significant lead in their head-to-head scorelines over the past 2½ years, winning seven of their last eight matches. Yet the one time Murray did succeed, it was on the most important stage of all: men’s final day at Wimbledon.
“Looking at where Andy was at the O₂ and his game at the end of the 2014 season, maybe people were not giving him such a great chances to get to the finals here,” said Djokovic on Friday. “But to me it’s not a huge surprise because I know what his qualities are, you know, what he can play and what he can deliver.
“I think his forehand has improved. And because the courts here are playing a bit faster, because the ball is bouncing a bit lower, that’s pretty suitable to his style of the game. He likes that. He has a flat backhand and moves around the court pretty well. So it’s going to be a very physical match. It’s finals, so I’m sure that we both are going to give our best.”
Djokovic’s unusually flat performance on Friday did suggest a lack of energy, and an inconsistent focus. He almost seemed to be having an out-of-body experience at one point. Around halfway through the match, he broke Wawrinka to take a 2-1 lead in sets. And yet he tried to stay on the court, not realising that the set was over.
Asked by Jim Courier in the on-court interview if that had ever happened to him before, Djokovic smiled and said: “In the junior days probably. Sometimes these things happen. You get carried away by the moment. There is a lot of tension, a lot of emotions going around. We’re both trying to perform our best and sometimes you lose track of the score.”
Those same emotions can be Djokovic’s weak point if he is pushed back by an aggressive opponent. He does sometimes become overwhelmed by negativity, as in his surprise defeat by Kei Nishikori at the US Open. Yet Murray will have to play superbly if he is to trigger that mental shift and beat his old rival for the first time on this court. Djokovic’s four previous finals on Rod Laver Arena have always found him at the peak of his powers.
