http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604237/s/449c31b8/sc/26/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cnews0Cgeneral0Eelection0E20A150C114724490CWhy0EIm0Estanding0Edown0Efrom0EParliament0EDame0ETessa0EJowell0EMP0Efor0EDulwich0Eand0EWest0ENorwood0Bhtml/story01.htm
Why I’m standing down from Parliament: Dame Tessa Jowell, MP for Dulwich and West Norwood
By Rosa Prince, Online Political Editor
12:48PM GMT 20 Mar 2015
Comments
is speaking to MPs who are standing down at the general election in May Dame Tessa Jowell, 67, was Labour MP for Dulwich and West Norwood 1992 – 2015.


How did you end up in Parliament?
“I was chasing a Tory majority of 192, but it was very clear that my Tory opponent had given up. Actually, when I won I sent him flowers.
“On election night, I remember buying a new dress, which I only wore ever once because in the cold light of day it wasn’t a very nice dress. But it was red, obligatory then.”
How did you feel on first becoming an MP?
“I found people actually incredibly kind and solicitous and wanting to help. I didn’t find people being stand-offish, I didn’t find that I was the butt of sexism or people being arrogant or anything like that, and that was very nice.”
Best of times:
“The night of the Opening Ceremony of the Olympics, we all queued up to get on a bus … and then the driver got lost. Boris [Johnson, Mayor of London] was on the bus, Bernard Hogan Howe, the Armed Forces Chief, all these big leaders, and the bus driver was getting so stressed.
“Ed [Miliband, the Labour Leader] was on the bus as well and Ed was fabulous because he was just making everyone laugh all the time. He and Boris got a kind of double act riff going on the third time we came round the roundabout. And here we were, we were the people who had to be at the ceremony because it couldn’t start.”
Worst of times:
“It was terrible, it was just terrible [being caught up in an Italian corruption scandal involving her husband David Mills]. My husband was exonerated, nobody understood really what it was all about. It was a maelstrom.
“But my husband has a mantra, and it’s ‘don’t look back, don’t bear grudges, and remember everyone has s***’. I felt terrible about my children, terrible about what they went through.”
Why are you leaving?
“I decided to stand down because, [I had] done the Olympics, and I didn’t think that I should go back into government, didn’t want to go back into government.
“I didn’t stand down in order then to stand as Mayor of London. I spent many months thinking about it, wondering if I really wanted to do it, and then what I couldn’t escape was this sense of why wouldn’t you try? If you can make a difference to the lives of Londoners why wouldn’t you try?”
What are your thoughts for future MPs?
“Notice people on the way up because you’ll hear from then on the way down.
“It’s very easy to mix only with the people who are in the papers, who are the rising stars, but actually everybody here is a representative, they were selected, they were chosen as a representative of their constituency. And there’s endless wisdom available.”
Will you feel a pang on May 7 – and what are you going to do next?
“Of course I will. Leaving this place is much more traumatic than I expected. I keep imagining that I’ve got to feel myself all over in case I’m already missing a limb. It is physical in that way.
“What I’m going to do is work as hard as I can for Labour to win the General Election and then … the Mayoral process kicks off and I’ve made it very clear that I will be a candidate.
ahead of the 2015 election here
Dame Tessa Jowell: the full story
Throughout her life, Dame Tessa has been compelled to do her best to help other people, an obligation she says has at time been “inconvenient”. Although her parents were not political, their strong values and desire to see the best in people have in her taken the form of a constant niggling drive to help others, from becoming a social worker and mental health campaigner to entering politics as first councillor and then an MP. It remains to this day, most recently in her decision to stand for Labour’s nomination for London Mayor.
Her first political activism was born of her work with the newly arrived West Indian immigrant community in south London.
“I knew how much I could do one to one with people to make them feel more optimistic about their lives, helping with practical things that could make their lives more bearable or even substantially better.
“It took me to thinking I can do a lot one on one but the solutions these people need in their lives are the big solutions that only politics can bring. So that’s what focused my mind on standing for Parliament.
“[I was] always Labour. I believed that the world was unfair to a lot of people. That’s an absolutely defining sense that you go into politics to deal with what is otherwise the inevitable course of events in the lives of so many people who are born and their life chances are handed out like vouchers. And you can change that.”
An awful time in Ilford North
Dame Tessa’s her first election outing, at a by-election in Ilford North in 1978, was an ordeal.
Although the seat had been Labour, the country was on the brink of turning to Margaret Thatcher’s Conservative Party as a solution to the malaise it had become mired in during the 1970s.
Essex in particular was ripe for the shift from left to right, as aspirant young East Londoners moved out to the suburbs in order to better themselves
The by-election proved a particularly nasty one; politics was becoming polarised and Dame Tessa was attacked by both the far right National Front and, as a pro-choice believer, the anti-abortion lobby.
“It was probably the three worst weeks of my life,” she says. “It was so cold, so dark, it was awful.
“I could just see the Labour vote bleeding away. I knew we were losing, and I knew we were losing not just in this by-election but we were losing generally, we were actually losing the country.”
Despite being “put off” politics by the by-election experience, Dame Tessa’s now familiar sense of duty led her to stand again at the 1979 general election largely because she felt “a sense of obligation” to the activists in the Ilford North constituency.
The result was the same, but she learned a lesson which would stay with her throughout her time in politics, and which helps to explain her steadfast support for Tony Blair’s project to modernise the Labour Party more than a decade later through the mechanism of New Labour.
“People were not getting a sense of aspiration, of positive optimism about their future, and that’s why I hope always my politics are the politics of aspiration, ambition, possibility and the future,” she says.”
An inconvenient sense of obligation
As the Thatcher years roared on, Dame Tessa sat out much of the opposition years, content raising her family and working at the mental health charity Mind while Labour took a lurch to the Left.
And then, as the 1992 election approach, that niggle began again.

Dame Tessa Jowell's election leaflet from 1992
“If you have this sense of obligation to make the world better and create possibility for people it can sometimes be quite inconvenient, because it’s always there.”
In 1992 Dame Tessa got her revenge for Ilford North, overturning a tiny Conservative majority to be elected MP for Dulwich.
Although she was thrilled to have won, the news was not so good for Labour elsewhere in the country, as John Major defied the odds to win the Tories’ fourth victory in a row.
“The next day we had a bus that went round the constituency to say thank you to people and it was clearly a discordant thing to have done because people’s faces were looking up not quite understanding what this bus-load of people that appeared to be celebrating was about.”
See us, hen!
If election night was one of mixed emotions, arriving at the Commons on her first day was pure joy.
“I remember walking through with someone who was a very dear friend of mine, Bridget Prentice, who was the newly-elected MP for Lewisham East, and we walked together through the door into the Member’s Entrance.
“We just stood there before we walked in and we linked arms, and she’s Scottish and I grew up in Scotland, and we just said ‘See us hen!’ That was a lovely moment.
“Glenda [Jackson, the actor and MP for Hampstead and Kilburn] was elected at the same time and Glenda and I shared a room and we had to have some pretty heavy negotiation about her smoking.
“I felt in the early few months overwhelmed by it really, over-awed by it, by the responsibility to the people I represent. I’ve always had that sense of profound connection to the people I represent.”
Despite her early nerves, within six months Dame Tessa began to feel restless and was determined to attract the attention of the party’s leadership.
She made her mark in a debate just before Christmas of 1992. After spending a night touring a number of Accident and Emergency departments in London hospitals, she reported on what she had seen of one of the first NHS “winter crises” to a rapt House of Commons.
A modernising minister
An early mis-step – supporting the candidacy of Bryan Gould at in the 1992 leadership election over the more Left-wing John Smith - proved to be an unconsciously canny move, when Mr Smith died unexpectedly and the modernising Tony Blair came to power.
Although Dame Tessa denies being ambitious, she did want to get on, and was delighted to be offered a post in the shadow health team.
“I didn’t come in and think right, I’m going to be leader of the party, I’m going to be in the shadow cabinet before anybody else.
“I wanted to use this extraordinary platform that I had. That was essentially what drove me.”
As the 1997 election approached, and with New Labour on course for a landslide, it was natural that Dame Tessa was hoping to become a minister.

Dame Tessa Jowell, pictured here at a local football match, says she wanted to use the 'extraordinary' platform she had
“All the indications were that I was going to be a minister,” she says. “I never quite believed it until it actually did happen.
“I remember election day in 1997 so well. The sun was shining, there was the most palpable sense of optimism. I remember going all round my constituency with a loud hailer and people waving and clapping their hands.
“It was a day of extraordinary optimism and hope and change and a future.”
The call from Mr Blair inviting to join the government did not come for four long days.
“It was my daughter’s birthday, so she had a horrible birthday because I was on the phone all the time,” Dame Tessa says. “He was never very chatty in these moments, he said: ‘I’d like you to do public health, and Alan [Milburn, the future Health Secretary] is going to do the NHS and I’d like you to work closely together, and remember you’re modernisers.’
“The other truly wonderful thing was working with Frank Dobson [the Health Secretary]. Dear Frank. Frank had a team of modernisers and we all absolutely adored him.
“In those days we were so passionate about what we were doing. It was an amazing time, actually.
“I remember the day I opened my first red [ministerial] box and looked inside. There was this great big submission, I think it was about antibiotic resistance. It was some incredibly technical public health issue. And I just looked at it and thought I have not the faintest idea what to do with this. But then you learn. I loved it.”
Did I want to go into the Cabinet? You bet, absolutely.
Dame Tessa spent two happy years at the Department of Health, during which her proudest achievement was setting up the Sure Start early nurturing programme, before she moved to the Department of Employment.
“Then came the 2001 election, another landslide,” she says. “All the papers said I was going to go into the Cabinet but we got to five o’clock the day after election day and I hadn’t had a phone call.
“Did I want to go to the Cabinet? You bet, absolutely. Definitely.
“I thought by 5 o’clock this is not going to happen, but I thought never mind, I’m going to go to the constituency and have a lovely evening with all my activists.
“There we were in the garden of the Crown and Greyhound in Dulwich Village and again it was a lovely sunny evening and my phone went.
“My agent picked it up out of my bag and said 'Oh, it’s Number 10 switchboard'. So with all my activists I answer my phone and … I got this message from one of the wonderful ladies on Switch saying 'Um, Tessa, the Prime Minister wonders if you could come and see him, could you be here in half an hour?'
“So I got in the car and drove up to Number 10, then I saw Tony who by then was slightly glazed because he’d done so many appointments. He said I want you to go to DCMS [the Department of Culture, Media and Sport]. I said lovely, thrilled.”
Despite having little knowledge of her new brief, Dame Tessa threw herself into it, making it, she says, “a major economic department.”

Tessa Jowell supporting Sport Relief in 2002
Turning down the Olympics? How pathetic
Then, just a year later, came the series of events which would change her life and bring joy to millions of her countrymen and women.
She says: “I’m going on holiday, one of my civil servants comes in and says ‘Secretary of State, before you go on holiday, we just wonder if you could sign off a letter to the Prime Minister advising against a bid to host the Olympic Games’.
“I thought, well, that’s quite pathetic really. Especially since the Sydney Olympics had been such a success. It was just after we’d had a very successful Olympic Games.
“And so I said bring me some more balanced advice. Came back from holiday, there was a campaign in the department to ‘talk her out of it’. I got the bit between my teeth … and we just went on a campaign of persuasion.
“[I] had this conversation with Tony when I’d more or less got it to 10 to midnight [and I] went to see him because it was time to sign off and support my recommendation to Cabinet.
“We sat on the veranda at No 10 outside the Cabinet Room. I thought I had 30 minutes but the Scots were coming in so I had seven minutes and he was distracted and said I think it’s very difficult and there’s so much else going on I don’t think we can do this.
“I said to him ‘so what’s the answer to this question: If we are the fourth largest economy in the world, we are a country that loves our sport, we think London is the greatest city in the world, but we don’t dare to host the Games in London in 2012. How are we going to answer that question?
“He looked at me long, hard and lilac [and] said I get your point I’ll reflect overnight and I’ll call you in the morning.
“And in the morning I got a call from his principle private secretary saying the Prime Minister’s reflected on your conversation and he’s prepared to accept your judgement.”

Dame Tessa Jowell during the Olympic Torch procession in 2012
David Beckham and 7/7
Having persuaded a reluctant Prime Minister and Cabinet to go ahead with the bid, Dame Tessa established from the International Olympic Committee that London was in with a chance and in 2005 accompanied Mr Blair, David Beckham, the England football captain, and a group of local schoolchildren to Singapore where the vote would take place.
“We absolutely went for broke on the bid, we got David Beckham and I thought I’d died and gone to heaven because there I was having my picture taken with David Beckham with his arms round me, and all these young people from East London. And then the next day London was bombed.”
Coming the day after the excitement of Singapore, the 7/7 Tube and bus attacks on London in which 52 died along with the four suicide bombers was a shocking experience for the capital, and one which could have soured the public’s perception of the Games.
As well as ensuring that the Olympics remained on track, Dame Tessa took on responsibility for helping the families of the victims of 7/7, as she had of those killed on 9/11.
She remains close to many of them and, as the 10th anniversary of the July 7 attacks approaches this summer, has been asked to deliver the memorial lecture, an honour she describes as “very touching”.
“I hardly know where to start with either 9/11 or 7/7,” she says. “There are so many thing that are important to make the pain of the loss in those circumstances even possible to endure, and one of them to is to have a memorial, a place to go, which is why memorials are so important.”
Dame Tessa was, of course, in the Cabinet which led the country into war in Iraq in 2003.
Iraq and a loyalist around the Cabinet table
One of Mr Blair’s most unwavering supporters, she describes how he leaned on her during the difficult weeks when the country was implacably opposed to an invasion which the prime minister was just as determined would take place.
“It was tough and tense and I remember just before one of the key Cabinet meetings, I’d gone to India to conclude a trade agreement on film production. I’d arrived on Tuesday and I got a call saying the Prime Minister would really like you to come back and be in Cabinet, so I was there for less than 24 hours.”
At times Dame Tessa has been accused of being too slavish to Mr Blair, a charge she rejects. She dismisses her famous remark that she would throw herself under a bus for him as a joke.
“I don’t like the term loyalist,” she says. “Loyalty is strength not weakness.
“I have never been blindly or unthinkingly loyal but I have a very clear view about the relationship between leadership and solidarity when you’re running a government.”
Scandal
If 2005 was a year of highs and lows, 2006 would prove to be an unmitigated misery as Dame Tessa’s lawyer husband David Mills was caught up in a scandal involving the Italian prime minister Silvio Burlusconi.
Fearing for her career, Mr Mills insisted that they separate until the furore died down. They reconciled some years later, leading to allegations that they had never been apart.
Despite the roughing up she had been through, Dame Tessa was never tempted to stand down, particularly given the by-now absorbing work on the Olympic Games, which proceeded on a cross-party basis as she found herself working with figures to her political left and right in the form of London mayors Ken Livingstone and Boris Johnson, as well as Sebastian Coe, the Tory peer and former Olympic athlete, and other sports stars.
She says: “It’s very hard to do justice to the sense of loyalty and commitment and solidarity that there was in the team who were leading the Olympics, who came from all sorts of backgrounds but who then were united by this sense of vision of what we could do.
Olympic glory
“For years it was like a secret. You couldn't tell anyone else because if you told them they wouldn’t believe you. That was incredibly important to me.
“We all had this sense of 100 per cent commitment to what we were doing together, to each other, and what this was going to be like in practice. That was a really wonderful experience of working with world class people in that way.”

Dame Tessa with local children
When Mr Blair stood down in favour of Gordon Brown, Dame Tessa seriously considered stepping down herself but was persuaded not to by the new Prime Minister. She was surprised, having never seen herself in the Brown camp, and did not particularly relish serving under him.
“It was generous of Gordon,” she says. “When Tony stood down I might have said now’s the time for me to go, and I sort of did think that in a way. But Gordon was very insistent that he wanted me to stay.
“I said I want to think about this and I rang Tony and said he wants me to do this. Tony said I think if the Prime Minister asks you to do something you have to do it. So I said yes.
Gordon Brown
“I was so focused on the Olympics and the apprenticeships and health and safety in the Olympic park and making sure we brought value to the local boroughs. It was an executive job writ large. And that was really where my focus was.
“I didn’t like the politics as much and I also had this great sense of sadness and in the early stages feeling quite angry with Gordon because Gordon was a brilliant Chancellor of the Exchequer but he just wasn’t temperamentally suited to being Prime Minister. Most of what went wrong in that time was because of Gordon’s frustration that he couldn’t do it.”
When Labour lost the 2010 general election, Dame Tessa’s association with the Olympics meant she had a softer landing into the “horror” of opposition than most.
“I was in a very lucky position in the first two years in opposition because I was on the Olympic board and in a way the tables were turned because I had run the Olympics on a cross party basis and with my counterparts now the secretary of state and minister, they did exactly the same.
“I was still involved in big decisions, so it was a gradual let-down to the horror of opposition.
“I think actually for all of us who were lucky enough to be in government, this has been a very hard five years. There’s not a single day you wouldn’t trade for a day in Government.
Opposition and London 2012
After the long years of hard work, she puts the Games’ Opening Ceremony as the high point of her political career.
“Afterwards at about three in the morning… we were all just reading each other all the texts we had had, and then staggering back to the village where I was a deputy mayor in heels that were far too high. That was an extraordinary moment, actually.
“But you see, it wasn’t just one night. Because we can be like that as a city. We discover something of the soul, the personality, of London.
“It didn’t happen and then never happen again. That is all the time how you capture the potential of London.”
Which brings her to her decision to stand as a candidate to represent Labour at the 2016 London Mayoral election.

Dame Tessa with Hillary Clinton in 2014. The probable US presidential hopeful said 'no guts no glory' to encourage Dame Tessa to run for mayor
Having resigned from the shadow cabinet two days after the Olympics in order to allow Labour’s leader Ed Miliband to bed in a younger team, she decided the following year it was time to step down from Parliament as well.
But within three months, that niggling sense of the need to help people, to serve, started up again.
Mayor of London
She is currently the front-runner for the job and as a precursor to her own bid is currently playing a leading role in campaigning for the party in the Capital.
Despite having important and interesting matters on the horizon, Dame Tessa has been surprised at how reluctant she is to leave the Commons, however.
“One of the many things I’ve loved about this place has been the rhythm of the week,” she says. “You can arrive at any time of the week and almost know what day it is.
“To have been here for 23 years is a privilege beyond anything I imagined would happen to me when I came back to London from Aberdeen. I loved being a member of parliament, loved it.”
CV A psychiatric social worker and head of the charity Mind 1978 unsuccessfully fights Ilford North at by-election, losing Labour seat to Conservatives. 1979 unsuccessfully fights Ilford North at general election. 1992 elected MP for Dulwich. 1994 becomes shadow health minister. 1997 becomes Public Health Minister 1999 becomes Employment Minister. 2001 re-elected as MP for Dulwich and West Norwood, becomes Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport. 2002 proposes London bid for 2012 Olympic Games. 2005 London is awarded Olympic Games in Singapore. Leads response to help victims of 7/7 terror attacks, which happen the next day. 2006 separates from lawyer husband David Mills after he is caught up in a scandal involving Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi. 2007 becomes Cabinet Office Minister with responsibility for Olympics. 2010 becomes shadow Olympics minister 2012 made a Dame of the British Empire, becomes deputy mayor of the Olympic Village, returns to backbenches, confirms that she has reconciled with husband 2013 announces she will stand down at 2015 general election. 2014 announces she will run to be Labour’s candidate for Mayor of London in 2016. Married to second husband David Mills, daughter is popstar Jess Mills, 34, son, Matthew, 31.
