http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604237/s/41381b38/sc/7/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Colympics0C112794340CIOC0Evotes0Efor0EOlympics0Eto0Ebe0Estaged0Eacross0Emore0Ethan0Eone0Ecountry0Bhtml/story01.htm
IOC votes for Olympics to be staged across more than one country
By Ben Rumsby, Monte Carlo
10:36AM GMT 08 Dec 2014
Comments
Future Summer Olympics could be held in more than one country after the International Olympic Committee voted in favour of revolutionary changes to how Games are organised.
IOC members also unanimously approved sweeping reforms aimed at making it easier for new and exciting sports – skateboarding, surfing and climbing have all been mooted – to be included in its programme of events from 2024.
The IOC Session in Monte Carlo voted on Monday morning on the first 10 of president Thomas Bach’s 40 ‘Agenda 2020’ proposals, billed as the biggest shake-up of the Olympic Movement since the Salt Lake City scandal.
The meeting began with members agreeing to allow events to be staged outside a host city and, “in exceptional cases”, across national borders, something intended to make it easier and cheaper for cities to bid.
Several concerns were expressed during a debate prior to the ballot but none raised their hands against the proposal.
French Olympic Committee want public to fund bid
Van on fire next to Olympic Stadium
Olympic Games presents Sevens dilemma
Olympic qualification begins for Rugby Sevens
Each of the subsequent reforms was also passed unanimously, despite those relating to the Games programme drawing what Bach described as a “new Olympic record” of questions from members uncertain precisely what was being proposed.
They included one from Princess Anne, which began: “I may be being a bit thick…”
In layman’s terms, the amendment proposed replacing the current limit of 28 sports at the Summer Games to a limit of 310 events from 2020, effectively allowing new sports to be added at the expense of unattractive events.
That could see events which struggle to attract television ratings replaced by those more appealing to viewers, particularly young people.
Bach said: “This is really a major step forward in the modernisation of the Olympic Games.”
Also voted through was a commitment to work towards achieving 50 per cent female participation in the Games and promoting the inclusion of “mixed-gender team events”.
The two-day meeting is also expected to see the IOC enshrine in its rulebook new regulations against discrimination, as well as a requirements for host cities in terms of environment impact and “labour-related matters” – something which comes on the back of the row over Russia’s anti-gay laws at this year’s Winter Olympics and the mistreatment of workers there and in Qatar ahead of the 2022 World Cup.
The main focus, however, was on measures to encourage countries to bid for the Summer and Winter Olympics in an age of austerity.
The process came under heavy fire after European nations pulled out of the race for the 2022 Winter Olympics.
The recommendation on reducing costs for bidding included cutting the number of presentations that are allowed by bidding cities and “providing a significant financial contribution from the IOC”.
The IOC will now have an “invitation phase” for bidding during which cities will be “advised about the opportunities this new procedure offers”.
