http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604237/s/3e6390c4/sc/7/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cnews0Ccelebritynews0C110A90A330A0CChemmy0EAlcott0Efinds0Eher0Ecul0Ede0Esac0Eleads0Enowhere0Bhtml/story01.htm
Chemmy Alcott finds her cul-de-sac leads nowhere
By Tim Walker
7:30AM BST 12 Sep 2014
Comments
Olympic champions Sir Steve Redgrave and Tessa Sanderson may already have had the honour of having roads named after them, but it looks as if Chemmy Alcott will have to wait a bit longer for her road to glory.
The skier’s fans on Kingston council in south London had suggested calling a newly built cul-de-sac in Surbiton Alcott Close in her honour, but, when it came to a vote, they ended up plumping instead for the rather more prosaic name, Hythe Road.
Chemmy, 32, who represented Great Britain at four Winter Olympics until her retirement this year, was gracious about the decision. “'Ah, that is disappointing, but I am sure they have their reasons,” she said. “I was so excited to potentially be having a street named after me. About a decade ago, a cheese manufacturer named a goat’s cheese Chemmy after seeing an interview of me.”
Surbiton may not be known for its glamour, but it will forever have a special place in Chemmy’s heart.
“I had great years at Surbiton High School, where they really helped to nurture my sporting talent alongside my academics,” she said. “I am now an ambassador for the school and mentor to their elite pupils, so to have a street named Alcott in the vicinity would have been very special.’
Chemmy Alcott would defect to an independent Scotland for next Winter Olympics
Dancing on Ice star Chemmy Alcott says Olympians should stop whingeing about London 2012 tickets
David Cameron's sister-in-law joins fight to get Scots to stay
Chemmy Alcott sets out to be more of a man than Bear Grylls
A contestant on the 2012 Dancing On Ice, she now has her heart set on becoming a television presenter. She lives near Hampton Court with her husband, the skier Dougie Crawford.
Read more from Mandrake here
Follow Tim Walker on Twitter
