http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569174/s/266d911e/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cnewcastle0Eunited0C97331860CAlan0EPardew0Etold0Ehe0Ecan0Estrengthen0ENewcastles0Esquad0Ein0Ethe0Etransfer0Ewindow0Eafter0Epoor0Estart0Eto0Ethe0Eseason0Bhtml/story01.htm
Alan Pardew told he can strengthen Newcastle's squad in the transfer window after poor start to the season
By Luke Edwards
10:00PM GMT 09 Dec 2012
Comments
He is now likely to renew his interest in France right-back Mathieu Debuchy, but a striker also remains a priority.
Pardew did not complain when a string of transfer targets failed to arrive in the summer, backing the club’s policy of developing their own players, but their parsimonious approach has not paid off.
With injuries hitting them hard, Newcastle - who play Fulham on Monday - have not looked like the team that finished fifth last season and sit in the bottom half of the Premier League table.
They won for only for the fourth time this season in the league against 10-man Wigan last week and also failed to top their group in the Europa League following a 2-0 defeat in Bordeaux.
Newcastle stubbornly refused to pay more than their own valuations for players in the summer and missed out on a string of targets, including Debuchy, Dutch striker Luke De Jong and their former centre-forward Andy Carroll. But Pardew believes the poor start and the criticism it has sparked has not only been a reality check, it has also persuaded managing director Derek Llambias to release funds for new players.
Arsenal to make offer for Zaha
Guardiola a target for PSG
Bordeaux 2 Newcastle United 0
Europa League action
Pardew: Ba contract hanging over us
Hansen: Arsenal must change transfer policy
Debuchy is the most likely new arrival, although the Magpies have also been watching Blackpool’s Thomas Ince and are looking at buying a new centre-forward, in case Demba Ba’s £7 million release clause is activated, and a centre back.
“This spell certainly made me question a few things that we have done,” said Pardew. “Whenever you get a blip like that, it makes you get on your mettle and change a few things.
“We have had a look at things and I think it is also time for the board to have a little look at things as well, about what has gone on. They have done that. All of us have had to re-adjust a little bit.
“I think it gave us a shake that we needed to do a little bit more work in the summer on recruitment and I don’t think we’re going to fall short again. We’ll be stronger in February.”
Pardew can still remember how miserable everybody at the club felt when they played at Craven Cottage two seasons ago, just two days after agreeing to sell Carroll to Liverpool for £35 million.
And, while his side have disappointed this season, he knows the club is still in a far stronger position than it was back in Feb 2011.
“We are miles away from that now,” he said. “In terms of the quality we have, we have dramatically improved. Unfortunately, in the last six or seven weeks, a lot of that quality has been in the treatment room.”
