http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570754/s/4491cafa/sc/7/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Cpolo0C114827670CA0Ereal0Eshame0Ebut0Ewe0Emust0Ethank0EAudi0Efor0Ehuge0Eimpact0Eon0Eall0Elevels0Eof0Epolo0Esays0EEngland0Ecaptain0EJames0EBeim0Bhtml/story01.htm
'A real shame but we must thank Audi for huge impact on all levels of polo', says England captain James Beim
By Gareth A Davies, Polo correspondent
12:51PM GMT 19 Mar 2015
Comments
• Follow Telegraph Sport's dedicated polo channel • Audi withdraws Polo sponsorship
James Beim, captain of England's senior team, has told The Telegraph that the sport should be grateful for Audi's sponsorship, which has "had a huge impact on polo at all levels in England".
Nowhere was this felt as keenly as within the England squad set-up, which has made exponential moves in terms of modern professionalism in the sport.
Polo was dealt a blow on Tuesday after Audi withdrew their long-standing support from all sponsorship within the sport. The news has left the Hurlingham Polo Association to find new sponsors for the England team, as well as International Day this summer, the flagship day for English polo.
Audi ended its decade-long association with polo earlier this week
Beim said: "I think it is a real shame that we have parted ways with Audi. They have been a great supporter of the English team, and have had a huge impact on polo at all levels in England. I would like to take the opportunity to thank them immensely for what they have done for the sport over the last decade."
The HPA had been in talks for the past two months to seek continuance of the three-tiered sponsorship but it has not gone ahead, leaving the sport's national governing body in a period of "review", according to its head administrator.
New sponsors for the England team and International Day will be sought as soon as possible, but Test Matches and the International Day event are not under threat, according to David Woodd, HPA CEO, and Neil Hobday, CEO of Guards Polo Club, Windsor Great Park, where the event is hosted.
James Beim has taken over captaincy duties from Luke Tomlinson, pictured right
England - minus captain Chris Hyde - go down fighting in the USA
A revised 19 goal England Arena Polo team of Oscar Mancini (6), Jonny Good (8) and Andrew Blake Thomas (5) played a 22 goal USA side featuring Tommy Biddle (10), Kris Kampsen (7) and Jared Sheldon (5) for The USPA Townsend International Challenge Cup on Saturday 14 March at Empire Polo Club, California.
The original line-up for the England team had included Chris Hyde, but as The Telegraph revealed in the week leading up to the match, Hyde had been unable to process his visa interview in time to join his teammates. Blake Thomas took his place.
The Cup was last played for in 2013 when England (Sebastian Dawnay, Max Charlton and Oli Hipwood) were triumphant, but this year it was the USA team that raised the trophy, with a final score of 17-12.
Arena Polo standout Biddle led the way for the USA, scoring eight goals, Kampsen hit six with Sheldon three for the American win.
On handicap, England began the game with a two-goal start. As Polo Times pointed out, the first match was played in Manhattan between the English and the USA in 1923, The Townsend Cup having been created in honour of John R. Townsend, a New York social figure and advocate of arena polo in the early years of the sport. The Townsend Cup wasn’t played again until 2004 and then again in 2008, 2011 and 2013.
King Power win the Thailand Polo Ambassador Cup Final 2015
A week of interactive polo for both patrons and professionals ended under the floodlights on the pitches of Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha’s VR Sports Club in Bangkok.
Teams from across Asia with Argentine and English pros gave an international feel to the tournament, teams included home side King Power, Shailai Liu’s Tang Polo from Beijing China, a young team playing under the L’Oreal Men’s Expert name, English patron Edward Batchelor of Cormix International Polo Team (who for the Ambassador Cup played under his sponsors name – Crockfords with English four goal pro Mike Howe), SPP (Siam Park Polo) and Globalport from the Philippines, which is headed up by businessman ‘Mikee’ Michael Romero, Vice Chairman of Air Asia Philippines.
A jubilant King Power hold aloft the winning trophy
The final saw King Power - Apichet Srivaddhanaprabha (0), Lucas Lujan (4), Santiago Lujan (3) and Paitoon Khamata (-1), face defending champions Crockfords (Cormix) - Edward Batchelor (-1), Russell Tyre (-1), Mike Howe (4) and Antonino Menard (4). First to put a goal on the board were King Power leading 1-0 at the end of the first.
In the second, the team in blue were up by three goals, at 4-1, before play was halted due to an injury, with Lucas Lujan being subbed for the rest of the match by Nicolas Pieroni.
Despite strong play from Crockfords, the home side remained in the lead for the entire match and achieved their second major tournament win this season on home grounds - having won the Thailand Polo King’s Cup earlier in January 2015 with a 19 goal King Power side: Apichet Srivaddhanaprabha (0), Aiyawatt (Top) Srivaddhanaprabha (1), Gonzalo Pieres (10) and Marcos Di Paola (8). Final score King Power 7 – 5 Crockfords (Cormix), with Mike Howe being awarded MVP.
