http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570754/s/437e7ab3/sc/4/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Cpolo0C114187340C30A0Egreat0Epolo0Eimages0Etop0Ephotographer0EAlice0EGipps0Echooses0Eher0Ebest0Epolo0Eand0Eequine0Ework0Bhtml/story01.htm
30 great polo images: top photographer Alice Gipps chooses her best polo and equine work
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570754/s/435f68f0/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Cpolo0C114122740CGeorge0EMeyrick0Ebeing0Ea0Eprofessional0Epolo0Eplayer0Econstant0Estruggle0Ebut0EI0Ewouldnt0Echange0Eit0Efor0Ethe0Eworld0Bhtml/story01.htm
George Meyrick: being a professional polo player ‘constant struggle’ but I wouldn’t change it for the world
By Gareth A Davies, Polo Correspondent
6:54PM GMT 13 Feb 2015
Comments

George Meyrick is like most top polo players – long, lean, and acutely modest.
After a morning of shooting clays at Holland & Holland’s grounds this week, at the launch of British Polo Day, for whom the young English 6-goal polo professional is an ambassador and player, Meyrick revealed a few home truths about the sport he loves.
Meyrick first made his way into high-goal polo, the highest level of the game, as a sixth-former at Cheltenham College; the Gloucestershire school being one of the few schools playing the sport.
He started young. Very young, in fact, on the family farm. “My grandfather played a bit. We always had horses and it was mainly at Pony Club where I played at the beginning. I loved it from then and carried it on.”
UK polo pressured to lift women's game
No recognition for women's polo, says top pro
Polo season 2014 in review
'Ponies will teach you more'
From memory, he has been on horses all his life. “We were pretty small – I seem to remember we had basket saddles so we must have been quite young. The polo came a little bit later, maybe at six or seven.”
That his father was a farmer, and that ponies were there at home, like companions, it was the catalyst for his becoming a horseman.
“I definitely had a lot of support from my parents, particularly my father. We always had ponies. I was lucky in that I grew up on a farm. So, straightaway I had a huge advantage,” he explained.
Breeding them, moreover, on the farm has been the cradle for his successful career in his mid-twenties. “I'll bring fourteen of my ponies into work this year. I'm not breeding but I've got a young horse programme. I bring them off the race track and try to turn them into polo ponies. Some are more successful than others. Sometimes it's a bit of luck and sometimes there's a bit of skill involved in making them as well.”
Yet Meyrick - tipped as Telegraph Sport’s one to watch last summer - scoffs at the idea that so many young English professional players are in the sport through wealth. “I think anybody who has made it in any sport has had some degree of help along the way, especially from parents at a young age.
George Meyrick speaks to Telegraph Polo's Gareth A Davies
“I think it would be very rare to find someone who has succeeded in sport without a huge amount of influence from a young age, either from parents or coaches or someone else. Particularly in polo, because of the resources you need, it's emphasised a lot.”
It remains a business where the player must act not only on the field, and then off it nurturing ponies, but then as entrepreneur, businessman, and in some senses, have a good PR radar.
Meyrick’s continuance in the sport was threatened just as he was getting started at the top end. Through injury.
“There is no security in this really and I did have a bad injury not too long ago. I had a foot injury, a broken foot, and missed a lot of action. I pretty much broke the metatarsals all the way across my foot. There was no riding for quite a long time. It was almost a year. It must be five or six years ago now.
“The surgeon at the time said it was potentially a career ending accident. I've never imagined myself doing anything else, though. I actually think I'd find a way to do something in the sport, whatever it was. I love so much about polo and personally I've never contemplated seriously doing anything else.
“I think most of the people playing share that passion for it because often it isn't the easiest thing in the world. The financial rewards aren't the main driving force.”
It was at Cheltenham College that he made the decision to embark on this ‘perilous’ journey.
“I played for the college team,” he says, but in the holidays, he’d venture to South America. “When I was in Argentina, I was already playing quite seriously then. I had my first couple of years in the high goal between AS and A Levels.”
Deciding that he needed to embark on playing rather than studying, he skipped University.
“I'm not going to say you can't do both because there are plenty of examples of people being successful in both things. Personally, when I was making a decision about university, I decided that I would have ended up not doing either thing properly.
“I wouldn't have got the most out of university and I wouldn't have got the most out of polo. So that was my decision. That's not to say that people can't do it and manage both things. There's a greater risk in not going down the traditional university route.”
But as a pro, as for many others, it is a battle to stay above water and make a decent living.
“I've been a pro for seven or eight years now. It is a constant struggle. There's the very glamorous side to it which people see, but there's also a lot of hard work, instability and travelling involved as well. At the moment it all seems great, but the lack of stability might not seem so great in 10 years’ time.”
Where Meyrick flourished in the UK last season, is with the patrons of Clarita, a successful polo team run by Chris and Clare Mathias.
“I'm playing for a husband and wife called Chris and Clare Mathias, who have been really good to me. I play a lot for them and I'm really looking forward to this next season. They're based between Guards and Cowdray. Last year was my first year with them.”
“It's difficult to stay in the high goal. There's only so many teams and only so many slots for each handicap. But obviously that's the ultimate for any player. To improve, that is what you need to be doing. You need to be in the high goal playing with the best players in the world and really testing your horses against the best horses. It's the same as in any sport. To be the best you need to be playing against the best.”
The goalposts shift each season, as players jockey for position with patrons, and schedule their year across the globe. British Polo Day – which has events for 10 months of the year across the world – may be one of the routes afforded Meyrick.
“Each year is different. I don't know yet about this coming year in the English season [April to September] but hopefully something will come up. We're going to do 18 goal, which is technically high goal in the Queens and Gold Cup.”
Meyrick admits it is tough for each generation of young professional players coming through. “It's difficult to keep encouraging them without promise of stability and good earnings. You can only encourage someone so much. How hard do you push someone when they're young and there's no real guarantee that they'll be able to make a career from it?”
Meyrick has represented England, and is in the larger squad overseen by the Hurlingham Polo Association. “I've played in a few Test matches for England but I haven't been selected yet for International Day. But, of course, like everyone I hope to do that. I think everyone can just look at their own career and try and improve. You can't get too caught up in things like that. It's the ultimate thing to play for your country. About as ultimate as it gets.”
At the risk of sounding too negative about the sport he loves, the 6-goaler added: “I have a great lifestyle, I can't deny that. I'm sure I work a lot harder at it and have things to cope with that some don't realise. The truth is probably somewhere in the middle.”
“But after 40 to 45, your career is potentially done, whereas most other people at that age are at the height of their earning power and experience.”
That’s perhaps why he’s such a laidback, unworried character. “I think polo makes you like that. I think you have to be slightly reflective in all sports.”
The Telegraph was at the launch of British Polo Day
We are looking for polo clubs to be featured in the Telegraph during 2015. Email and
