http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570754/s/42b36e08/sc/4/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Cpolo0C113691950CPolo0Edrones0Ewould0Echange0Ethe0Esports0Ecomplexion0Bhtml/story01.htm
'Polo drones would change the sport's complexion'
By Rod Gilmour, Polo Editor
9:45AM GMT 26 Jan 2015
Comments
World polo should look at the success of sailing’s television production arm if it harbours ambition to take the sport to a new audience.
So says aerial photography specialist Jack Hardway, who has been working in the sports television field for the last 15 years.
The use of drones in sport has become a relatively hot topic in recent months, while polo’s first steps came at the US and Argentine Opens when PoloLine TV implemented the technology into its coverage.
Hardway, who first started researching drones four years ago, maintains that height will be crucial to polo’s success to build an audience.
“Depth on a horizontal plain is sometimes hard to figure out for people, especially on a larger scale like a polo field,” he said. “Elevation of camera shots are going to be the governing body’s friend [if spectators are to relate to the sport].
'Drones will shape polo’s future'
Drones aim to lift polo as ‘extreme sport’
'Polo is incredibly lucky to have Cambiaso'
'Olympic inclusion for polo will be extremely difficult'
“Sailing is like polo. I feel it’s hard for most people to relate to; mainly as it is not a sport you can go outside and play.
“The America’s Cup result was a huge money loss, but what they accomplished resulted positively in the sense they were able to give the viewers a much better understanding of the strategies and race development while it was happening.”
Organisers, he says, achieved this through technology, money invested, and execution.
However, Hardway maintains that polo should look at the success of sailing’s nine-month event, the Volvo Ocean Race, as the litmus test.

PoloFirstCut from Jack Hardway on Vimeo.
“The VOR to me is much better off I feel,” he said. “Through the internet they have been able to achieve their goal. The VOR viewership is a very finite group, because the audience is small and their playing field is so large.
“To cover any of the event has to be very informative in order to yield enough exposure to keep their audience watching. Over the years this is something they have tuned to give the event a much better exposure.
“For Polo I think they will have to figure out that approach if they are concentrating on ways to broadcast the event. Drones could definitely give them an advantage, mainly because for the size of field that needs to be covered and a drone’s ability to dynamically position itself in doing this.”

2014 Maserati U.S. Open Polo Championship from Horseplay Productions on Vimeo.
Liability costs, in as far as drones hovering close to players and ponies, could prove one stumbling block for the sport, but Hardway says the technology will soon be incorporated into everyday use, including sporting events.
“Using them for sports is in its infancy phase,” he added. “If polo is interested in starting to use them as part of their coverage I think it’s as good a time as any.”
– Follow the Telegraph's dedicated polo channel
