http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/640203/s/4387fd14/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Creal0Emadrid0C11420A7610CSchalke0Ev0EReal0EMadrid0EChampions0ELeague0Elive0Ewith0ECristiano0ERonaldo0Eand0EGareth0EBale0Eset0Eto0Estart0Bhtml/story01.htm
Schalke 0 Real Madrid 2, match report: Cristiano Ronaldo ends 'drought' before Marcelo seals win
By Alan Tyers, and agencies
9:45PM GMT 18 Feb 2015
Comments
The shortest drought since records began is over. Ronaldo, who had not scored for three whole games, nodded in after 26 minutes against an outclassed Schalke 04 side. Marcelo added the second on 79 minutes and it will be a major surprise if the return leg is other than a formality.
Real Madrid’s entitled fans had booed Carlo Ancelotti and Iker Casillas during the weekend’s victory over Deportivo La Coruña but Ancelotti dismissed the notion that his running on to the pitch to celebrate with Marcelo was evidence of relief.
“No, it was because I was surprised he scored with his right foot,” he said of the left-footed, full-back. Ancelotti laughed at the suggestion last season’s 10th European Cup win had in any way stilled the relentlessly demanding fans. “The pressure is the same, always.”
Gareth Bale looks to be feeling that pressure. He raced clear in the second half only to dither before misplacing a simple pass to Ronaldo.
The Portuguese applauded ostentatiously, perhaps to nix rumours of a rift between himself and the Welshman, but Bale is not the free-running sight he was at Spurs. Ronaldo’s opener came as Schalke tried to play the offside trap and failed.
Schalke v Real: as it happened
Dani Carvajal, the Madrid right-back, was allowed time to pick out a cross, and four of the Schalke backline stepped up neatly. Sadly, there were five in the Schalke backline: Joël Matip had not got the memo, and he played Ronaldo onside.
Schalke substitute Felix Platte crashed an effort against the crossbar after 73 minutes but Schalke did not deserve parity. Marcelo’s insurance goal soon after may have brought relief. It should bring a quarter-final berth.
English referee Mark Clattenburg was at the centre of controversy as Porto hit back with a late Danilo penalty to hold Basel 1-1. Clattenburg disallowed a Porto goal after a long delay.
Derlis González gave the Swiss champions an 11th-minute lead but Danilo replied in the 79th minute, following Walter Samuel’s handball.
The game’s talking point was the disallowed Porto goal in the 48th minute. The visitors had finished celebrating and were back on the halfway line when Clattenburg, after a long consultation with his linesman, disallowed Casemiro’s goal for offside.
The delay angered Porto coach Julen Lopategui. “It was difficult for us to get going again when the decision was changed after such a long time,” he said.
Basel, who qualified for the last 16 at the expense of Liverpool, had scored with the first chance of the game in the 11th minute. Fabian Frei chipped over the Porto defence and found González, who held off his marker and prodded the ball past keeper Fabiano.
But Basel lost their bite after the Paraguayan went off injured in the 25th minute. Porto took their time to get going but controlled the game in the second half. “We were clearly superior to a very good team and in adverse circumstances,” Lopategui added. “They scored with their only shot on goal.”
