http://us.rd.yahoo.com/sports/rss/mlb/SIG=12ttg6sbh/*http%3A//sports.yahoo.com/news/gomez-3-run-hr-off-shields-helps-brewers-234202196--mlb.html
Gomez 3-run HR off Shields helps Brewers beat Padres
PEORIA, Ariz. (AP) -- Carlos Gomez has a way of igniting the Milwaukee Brewers.
Gomez walked and scored in the first inning, and hit a three-run homer in the second off James Shields as the Brewers defeated the a San Diego Padres split squad 6-4 on Tuesday.
Gomez hit a long drive to left for his second homer of the spring.
The All-Star and Gold Glove center fielder, who starting pitcher Matt Garza likened to a ''stick of dynamite with no fuse'' on Tuesday, is batting .385 this spring.
''He can be patient, and at times we see it. But other times he just goes back to swinging mode,'' Brewers manager Ron Roenicke said. ''But when he's looking at pitches and you're going to have to put it on the plate, he's a scary one.''
Shields, who had not allowed a run in four innings in his first two starts with his new team, gave up three hits and four runs in three innings. He walked two and struck out five.
Ryan Braun's hitless spring extended to 12 at-bats for the Brewers. He walked, struck out and grounded out.
Cameron Maybin, Jedd Gyorko and Diego Goris homered for the Padres off Garza.
STARTING TIME
Brewers: Garza said he had a hard time getting a grip on the ball on a hot, dry day. It didn't help that the wind was blowing out hard.
''He misfired once in a while, but I thought he threw the ball well,'' Roenicke said. ''He made a lot of good pitches but all of a sudden one would get away from him.''
Padres: Shields said he ''didn't feel too good out of the stretch today, but I guess that's going to happen in spring training. It's just kind of one of those games.''
On the home run to Gomez, the 33-year-old right-hander said, ''I wanted to get it a little more inside. I'll go back to the drawing board and fix a couple things.''
K-ROD, BREWERS DEAL DONE
Brewers closer Francisco Rodriguez gets $3.5 million this season under his $13 million, two-year contract. He gets $7.5 million in 2016, of which $2 million is deferred without interest until Jan. 10, 2018.
Milwaukee has a $6 million option for 2017 with a $2 million buyout, with the buyout payable Jan. 17, 2017.
POINT OF PRIDE
Shields batted for the first time this spring and had a two-out RBI single off Garza. The two were teammates in Tampa Bay, and played on the 2008 AL champions.
''It was kind of nice to get a hit off Garza. Some bragging rights there,'' said Shields, a .213 hitter in his career. Having played only in the American League with the DH rule until this season, he'll get to the plate more often with the National League's Padres.
Shields won the other matchup, too, striking out Garza.
''Either he's going to buy dinner, or I am,'' Shields said.
NEXT UP
Brewers: Wily Peralta goes for Milwaukee against the Kansas City Royals.
Padres: Tyson Ross faces the Colorado Rockies on Wednesday.
