http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/640203/s/4316e6f4/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cqueens0Epark0Erangers0C113941190CTim0ESherwood0Ecloses0Ein0Eon0EQPR0Eas0ESteve0EMcClaren0Eand0EPaul0EClement0Erule0Ethemselves0Eout0Bhtml/story01.htm
Tim Sherwood closes in on QPR as Steve McClaren and Paul Clement rule themselves out
By Jeremy Wilson
7:20PM GMT 05 Feb 2015
Comments
Tim Sherwood has edged even closer to replacing Harry Redknapp as the next Queens Park Rangers manager after the two other main candidates – Paul Clement and Steve McClaren – both effectively ruled themselves out.
Chris Ramsey and Kevin Bond will lead the team against Southampton on Saturday but a permanent appointment is now likely early next week, with director of football Les Ferdinand expected to recommend Sherwood.
Clement is currently assistant to Carlo Ancelotti at Real Madrid but does not want to move mid-season, even for a Premier League managerial job.
McClaren wants to stay and lead Derby County back into the Premier League and will be well aware that his current club could easily cross trade divisions with QPR at the end of the season.
“I’m very flattered to be linked with Queens Park Rangers, a club I supported as a young boy,” said Clement.
Ramsey 'happy to work' with Sherwood at QPR
Ramsey: 'This is my show, not Sherwood's!'
Austin injury piles on the misery for QPR
QPR give Ferdinand licence to overhaul club
“It would be a real honour to manage that club at some point in the future.
"But, at this time, I’ve got no intention of leaving Real Madrid in mid-season.”
McClaren was also linked with the Crystal Palace and Newcastle United jobs when Alan Pardew left for Crystal Palace and said that he would “laugh off” the suggestion he could leave Derby.
Like Ferdinand, Ramsey previously worked alongside Sherwood at Tottenham and, ahead of taking caretaker charge against Southampton, said that the new coaching team would be offering a "clean slate" to the players.
“I haven't got the personal relationships with the players that the last manager had,” said Ramsey.
“It is an opportunity now for everyone to show what they can do. Everyone who is fit and available will be in contention. I believe we have got more than enough talent here to see ourselves safe.”
Ramsey also specifically stressed that players in the under-21 team would come into contention if they were excelling.
Bond, who was part of Redknapp's coaching team at Portsmouth, Tottenham and Southampton, as well as QPR, has told the club that he wants to stay.
