http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568315/s/44811013/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Carsenal0C114772750CMonaco0Ev0EArsenal0Efive0Ethings0Ewe0Elearned0Bhtml/story01.htm
Monaco v Arsenal: five things we learned
By Rob Bagchi
9:44PM GMT 17 Mar 2015
Comments
Welbeck needs to work on his close control
For all Danny Welbeck’s qualities and the assist for the opening goal, too often his control lets him down. Oddly there is not much wrong with his first touch, it is his third that is too heavy. Three times in the first-half he cut in from the touchline, killed a crisp pass, pushed it ahead of his full-back and then knocked it too far as he opened his stride. Dribbling at pace is difficult to master and separates the great from the good but Welbeck is almost there until either excitement or nerves get the better of him. More haste less speed.

Monreal has improved beyond recognition
The left-back had the look of a new Andre Santos about him after a difficult start to his Arsenal career but his spell as a makeshift and not very convincing centre-half seems to have improved his defensive positioning immeasurably. He has developed a good understanding with Laurent Koscielny to add to his attacking strength. Going forward he looks more comfortable attacking a full-back on the outside as well as the inside than Kieran Gibbs has this season and has proved the doubters wrong.

Nothing riles an old pro more than a half-time shirt swap
Given the reaction of Paul Scholes and Lee Dixon to Mesut Özil giving his shirt to Geoffrey Kondogbia at half-time, you would have thought he had spat on the badge. What harm does it do? He didn't ask for a souvenir, he was merely acceeding to a request, much as Mario Balotelli did earlier in the season which provoked a hysyterical response. Thinking laterally, it could have even worked in his favour – better to get rid of it then than have five players dogging his every move towards the end of the game as they jockey for it as Diego Maradona, Zico et al found to the cost of space late on.

Mesut Ozil exits at half-time after committing a crime against Lee Dixon's sensibilities (Rex)
Who knew U2 were football fans?
Taking a break from junkmailing every iTunes accountholder with their latest album, three of the Irish quartet were spotted in the stands at Stade Louis II watching the match intently. Football stadiums have long been their venues of choice but usually from a stage at one end, not the stands. It’s not known which team they were supporting but given their fondness for low tax jurisdictions perhaps their presence in the principality was not as much of a surprise as the reaction it provoked.

Arsène Wenger does have a Plan B
The manager has been heavily criticised for sticking to his guns and never deploying his substitutes till too late in the game but the planned introduction of Aaron Ramsey to add more midfield drive against a tiring Monaco defence almost worked a treat in a performance that used patience as a weapon rather than a means to infuriate the more gung-ho of Arsenal supporters. The tie was lost in the first leg and that naive defensive lapse at the death - their play in the second leg was far more coherent and tactically varied.

Aaron Ramsey made an impact from the bench (AFP)
