http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568315/s/44762ac8/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Carsenal0C114763710CMonaco0Evs0EArsenal0EChampions0ELeague0EPer0EMertesacker0Eadmits0EArsene0EWengers0Eside0Ementally0Elacking0Eat0EEmirates0Bhtml/story01.htm
Monaco vs Arsenal, Champions League: Per Mertesacker admits Arsene Wenger's side mentally lacking at Emirates
By Jeremy Wilson, in Monaco
12:15AM GMT 17 Mar 2015
Comments
Arsène Wenger called his players many things after the earthquake of a 3-1 Champions League defeat by Monaco at the Emirates Stadium three weeks ago. The Arsenal manager said they were “naive” and “suicidal”. He felt that they had let their hearts rule their heads. He also admitted that they had lost both their “nerve” and “rationality”.
What Wenger has firmly rejected since, however, is any suggestion that Arsenal somehow lacked desire.
It was surprising, then, to hear Per Mertesacker offer what felt like a rather different perspective upon the team’s arrival on the French Riviera for the second leg on Tuesday night.
“We know that first leg we weren’t really up for it mentally,” the German defender said. “From the start you could feel that and, at times, we could feel that there was a bit of a pressure and we couldn’t cope with that.”

Mertesacker did not expand further on his observations but, whether he was alluding to a streak of complacency or simply the jangling nerves that Wenger had already identified, it spoke little for the team’s collective mentality.
The big caveat, of course, is in how Arsenal have since responded. Four straight wins have ensured that their season will be far from finished even if they do fail to become the first club in Champions League history to reverse such a heavy home defeat in the first leg.
An FA Cup semi-final still awaits at Wembley and, according to Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho, Arsenal are also again legitimate Premier League title contenders.
Both Mertesacker and Wenger seemed uncertain on Monday night how to treat Mourinho’s supposed compliment but what they did both stress was how the team had recovered since the first leg.
Arsène Wenger, the Arsenal manager, is back in Monaco for a must-win tie Photo: AFP
It is this, allied to a wider run of 12 wins in 14 matches, that has given the squad tangible belief for what might seem like a hopeless cause.
Mertesacker also claimed that the players had learnt the lessons of being so exposed on the counter-attack following a team meeting. “We are coming out of a great week with two important wins,” he said. “We have a good level of confidence. We have to face the truth, we have to show a different face but you need to embrace the challenge.
“You have to learn after a defeat, just the same as when you win. After that fixture obviously there were a lot of things that went not so well. We feel like, especially after that game, we moved on and improved a lot. That is why we are very confident that, even away from home, we can beat any team in the world.”
As well as the defensive frailties, most fingers of blame were pointed in the specific direction of Olivier Giroud after the first game. He missed a series of chances before being substituted to cheers from many Arsenal fans but has since scored three goals in three starts.
Olivier Giroud must prove himself against Monaco, said Wenger Photo: REX FEATURES
“He owes a revenge to himself – a great performance for himself,” Wenger said. “What striker does not miss an opportunity? He has the ability of a top international striker and the right mental attitude. He is in better condition. He got over the disappointment of the first leg and will do everything to be at the top level.”
The wider narrative on Tuesday will be Wenger’s own personal return to the Stade Louis II for his first competitive match since being sacked in 1994. He is actually the longest serving manager in the history of Monaco as well as Arsenal, delivering a French league title and domestic cup as well as a European final and Champions League semi-final during his seven years on the Cote d’Azur.
He was greeted on Monday by the club’s vice-president, Vadim Vasilyev, and presented with a photographic montage to commemorate his time at the club. Wenger was visibly warmed by the welcome but also quick both to inspect the pitch – it had been a persistent source of concern when he was manager – and stress that he would only be happy should Arsenal progress. “When it rains in the south of France, it rains, it doesn’t drizzle,” Wenger said.
“The pitch is a little concern but it looks very good. I am able to separate the emotion of coming back and the importance of the game. I am here for work and my job is for my club to win. The statistics are against us but, no matter how big the percentage is, we have to give absolutely everything to make the stats lie.”
One further thing against Arsenal is that Monaco’s already miserly defence – they have conceded just two goals in seven Champions League games – will be further boosted by the return of former Chelsea centre-back Ricardo Carvalho.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Did you know Telegraph Sport has an ?

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Their manager, Leonardo Jardim, said on Monday that “it might be the year of the French teams” after Paris St-Germain’s defeat of Chelsea last week.
The odds are certainly stacked against Arsenal and Wenger was asked on Monday if he ever visited the casinos during his time in Monaco. The reply, unsurprisingly, was in the negative and only the most optimistic Arsenal fan will be putting everything on the reds on Tuesday.
