http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568315/s/44746ed9/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Carsenal0C114756860CMonaco0Ev0EArsenal0EArsene0EWenger0Epress0Econference0Elive0Bhtml/story01.htm
Monaco v Arsenal: Arsene Wenger press conference as it happened
By Dan Lucas
6:39PM GMT 16 Mar 2015

18.46 Yep it has finished. To recap what we've learned here:
- Gabriel is available to play tomorrow but Rosicky and the Ox aren't. - That's about it.
Bye!
18.43 Er, I think that's it. The updates have gone very quiet now.
18.39 I meant to write "Santa", but going to leave it there anyway.
18.37 Yep, that's definitely what they were, Per. Praise. Mourinho just loves dishing it out magnanimously. Especially to Arsenal. He's like a prickly, suave Satan.
18.34 Apparently, Arsene Wenger has not-quite-but-almost denied that he ever visited the casinos in Monaco. Not sure why someone asked him that, mind.
Mertesacker also admits that Arsenal did not cope with the pressure of the first leg. Says that things have changed and the defenders have been talking too each other a lot since.
Wenger on Mourinho saying that Arsenal are title contenders: "Our target is to continue to win games, we are too far still from Chelsea. We give absolutely everything to come as close as possible."
Mertesacker say they will take Mourinho's comments as praise.
18.31 It looks like Wenger has the same concerns that Monaco's Nabil Dirar spoke of earlier.
Is the pitch really a concern to Wenger: “It is a little bit - it has rained a lot. There were two problems when I was a manager here. The quality of the pitch is not fantastic. When it rains in the south of France, it rains. It doesn’t drizzle. They had to postpone a game recently because of the rain."
18.29 To expand on those Wenger quotes:
Monaco are in a very strong position, but we have the experience, the desire and the belief we can do it - so let's give everything to do it. We have to show a different face, but you need to embrace the challenge. They have a good side, but we are confident. We want to put things right [after the first leg]. Football is not predictable but I can predict the desire and belief to do well will be there.
18.27 I'm keeping my byline on here, deserved or not.
Wenger on coming back to Monaco?
It’s a very special moment, I was a young coach at Monaco, I stayed here for seven years. The experience I have gained can help me make the right decision. I must separate the importance of the game and the delight to back back. The way to enjoy it the most is to do better and turn things around. I’m here for work, my job is for my club to win. Of course I have a lot of respect. I want to thank the club who gave me the opportunity as a coach.
And the possibility of penalties?
We practice penalties all year but not especially for tomorrow’s game. You never know who finishes the game so we don’t have an order. You have to improvise always a little bit.
18.22 Or, if you prefer your news delivered with a dose of professionalism:
Wenger has just arrived on his return to the Stade Louis II for the first time as an opposing manager. He is still Monaco's longest serving manager. Per Mertesacker also joins Wenger for the press conference.
Wenger confirms that Gabriel is back in the squad but no Oxlade-Chamberlain or Rosicky. "We have the belief that we can do it.

"We have 12 wins in 14 games. We didn't play well in the first leg but, in life, you sometimes have chances to make up for your mistakes. We have that chance."
Mertesacker says that the past week - wins against Man Utd and West Ham - has made a big difference to confidence and will help Arsenal. He says the club must "face the truth and embrace the challenge".
18.20 So to answer the burning questions from earlier, Gabriel does make the squad and is available tomorrow. No such luck for poor old Tomas Rosicky though, who is tucked up in bed back in London. Or wherever he lives, I don't know. He's not playing tomorrow anyhow.
18.13 More from the outstandingly industrious Mr. Wilson:
Nabil Dirar, the Monaco winger, say that we will see the "true face of Arsenal tomorrow" but warns "that we have our counter-attacking style". Dirar says the Monaco pitch is good following reports of concern from Wenger but that it could become muddy and slippery amid forecast tomorrow of heavy rain.
In other news, I've been caught out:
<noframe>Twitter: Not Fred Titmus - <a href="http://www.twitter.com/DanLucas86" target="_blank">@DanLucas86</a> "From what I remember, it takes about an hour to get from Nice to Monaco too"That's what's known as a thinly-veiled brag.</noframe>
18.10 And if you want an expansion on Jardim's quotes, then you're in luck.
When you are facing a such a team as Arsenal, with players like [Danny] Welbeck, [Mesut] Özil and [Santi] Cazorla - it is true we cannot take it easy. We must focus. We are at half-time [in the tie] but our opponent has strong and quality players within their squad, so it will be very difficult for us.
18.07 A bit more news:
Jardim hails Dimitar Berbatov, who scored Monaco's second in the first leg. "He is very mature, still at a high level."
Monaco also adamant that they will not now underestimate Arsenal their lead. "We are at half-time, we are two goals ahead but our opponent have such strong and quality players within their squad. It will be very difficult for us - the most difficult game we have had in recent years."
Revival of French league? PSG knocked out Chelsea and Monaco have Arsenal on the ropes. Jardim thinks so. "Compared to previous years it's true that the French teams are playing at a better level. PSG showed the quality of the work that has been done here in France. It's the same for Monaco here. Who knows, it might be the year of the French teams."
18.02 Jeremy Wilson writes...
Monaco manager Leonardo Jardim is up first for the press conferences as Arsenal and Arsene Wenger have been slightly delayed. Jardim says that Monaco will approach the second leg just as they did the first leg, which he calls their "perfect game, a dream performance" and says that he does not think that Arsenal underestimated his team.
18.00 Aw the waiting game sucks. Let's play Hungry Hungry Hippos!
<noframe>Twitter: Jim van Wijk - Arsenal flight delayed into nice airport... so now we play the waiting game...</noframe>
17.55 You may have noticed that there's no news yet. This may be because I'm seeing reports that Arsenal's flight into Nice has been delayed. From what I remember, it takes about an hour to get from Nice to Monaco too.
17.47 What we're expecting to hear is news on whether or not Gabriel and Tomas Rosicky are likely to play any part. The former has a hamstring knack and the latter is feeling unwell.
17.34 This is gold:
<noframe>Twitter: Arsenal News - Ex Arsenal striker Nicklas Bendtner is now "officially" Lord Bendtner - after somebody bought him some land in Scotland.</noframe>
17.29 Alternatively, Ian Hawkey reminisces about Arsene's time in charge of Monaco:
You need to look hard to find a lasting trace of Arsène Wenger in the glitzier spots of the Côte d’Azur. His name will always guarantee a reservation at La Petite Maison, a favoured Nice restaurant, but in a region loved by jet-setters and bon vivants, Wenger was never one of those. He focused on his work.
Wenger takes Arsenal to the Stade Louis II, on the edge of Monte Carlo, for practice and press conferences today. He will be curious about what has changed in the 20 years since this was his place of employment. He will check closely how far the problems with the playing surface — the pitch was originally laid above a car park — have been resolved since he was urging talented AS Monaco footballers to keep their passes low to the ground.
17.24 Right, while we wait for this masterclass in oration about how they still believe they can win and blah blah, why not have a read of some stuff we've written? First, Jeremy Wilson on Arsene Wenger saying he still believes they can win. Oh.
Olivier Giroud described football as “an everlasting new beginning” on Saturday but, if there was ever one ending that he must yearn to script, it is surely Arsenal’s Champions League tie against Monaco.
In his three new beginnings since the first leg finished in something close to personal humiliation, Giroud might have scored three times but the chance for redemption will fuel a motivation that must stretch far beyond simply reaching the quarter-final.
“We can go there and create something special,” claimed Arsene Wenger after a 3-0 win against West Ham United that mirrors the scoreline his team now need on the Cote d’Azur tomorrow following the 3-1 defeat at the Emirates.
16.55 Afternoon folks. Arsene Wenger will be addressing assorted media folk from 5.45pm ahead of Arsenal's tricky attempt to overturn a 3-1 first-leg deficit in the Champions League last-16 round in Monaco. Will he shock us all by resigning out of the blue? Shock us even more by announcing a summer move for a defensive midfielder we've heard of? Shock us a bit less by revealing himself as king of the lizard people? Announce an REM reunion at Glastonbury this year? Or say that someone new is struggling with an ankle injury? Stay tuned to find out.
