http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568315/s/446d84c9/sc/8/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Carsenal0C114742620CMonaco0Ev0EArsenal0EArsene0EWengers0Ereturn0Estirs0Eup0Eold0Eghosts0Eahead0Eof0EChampions0ELeague0Eclash0Bhtml/story01.htm
Monaco v Arsenal: Arsene Wenger's return stirs up old ghosts ahead of Champions League clash
By Ian Hawkey
7:18AM GMT 16 Mar 2015
Comments
You need to look hard to find a lasting trace of Arsène Wenger in the glitzier spots of the Côte d’Azur. His name will always guarantee a reservation at La Petite Maison, a favoured Nice restaurant, but in a region loved by jet-setters and bon vivants, Wenger was never one of those. He focused on his work.
Wenger takes Arsenal to the Stade Louis II, on the edge of Monte Carlo, for practice and press conferences today. He will be curious about what has changed in the 20 years since this was his place of employment. He will check closely how far the problems with the playing surface — the pitch was originally laid above a car park — have been resolved since he was urging talented AS Monaco footballers to keep their passes low to the ground.
Wenger with two of hs Monaco signings - Mark Hateley and Glenn Hoddle (Getty Images)
When he encounters old acquaintances, he will be reminded of the enduring, positive stamp his seven years as head coach of Monaco left. “He should definitely get a warm reception from supporters,” says Manuel Amoros, one of Wenger’s senior lieutenants in the squad he took on in 1987. “He made history here. He gave the club a new dimension.”
There will be anxiety, too, about the reunion, his first trip to Monaco, alias ASM, as an opponent since leaving, mainly because his Arsenal are 3-1 down in a Champions League tie they had been favoured to win, and partly for some unhappy memories about the injustices in French football during his time there.
• Wenger: We can do something special in Monaco • Video: Arsenal crush West Ham - the key match stats • Why Giroud is a brilliant flat-track bully for Arsenal • Jonathan Liew - Walcott is fighting for Arsenal future
Wenger landed the Monaco job when he was 37. He quickly won over a diverse set of players. “He was very open,” Amoros says, “and his ideas about preparation for games were fresh, different to what all of us were used to.” A radical? “A little, but he was careful to introduce ideas progressively. He changed the way we ate, the timetables we kept and generally took the club up in terms of professionalism.”
The dividends seemed instant. Five wins from the first six league matches of his debut season, and from the end of July to the celebrating of the 1987-88 title, ASM never relinquished top spot.
Back in his Monaco days, Wenger would enjoy the odd dug-out cigarette
Higher targets were then set, a determination to make Monaco a resonant name across the continent. Amoros picks out a 6-1 win over a strong Club Brugge in the European Cup as a highlight. “We were 1-0 down from the first leg. He told us, ‘We need to win, first and foremost, but we also need a real performance, to be compact, united, to play for each other. That was a night made by Wenger. We had become a very attractive team to watch.”
Wenger’s Monaco would later reach a Cup-Winners’ Cup final and a semi; in his last year, ASM made the last four of the European Cup. Yet they were not the chief standard-bearers for French football in the late Eighties and early Nineties. Olympique Marseille, OM, grabbed that status, and developed a poisonous rivalry with Wenger’s team.
Did you know Telegraph Sport has an ?

Amoros saw the duel from both sides. He left ASM for OM in 1989. “Arsène was looking to rejuvenate Monaco, and typically, wanted to show confidence in young players,” he explains. “At OM, we regarded Monaco and Paris St-Germain as our biggest, toughest opponents, and, yes, there was tension, which the media would often focus on Wenger against the OM president Bernard Tapie.”
On the one side, the professorial, principled, upright young coach; on the other, Tapie, a loudmouth, a political mover-and-shaker, and, it turned out, a 24-carat crook.
Marseille coach Bernard Tapie (right) was the antithesis of Wenger (AP)
Wenger suspected Tapie’s OM might be corrupt well before the proof emerged. One day in his penultimate Monaco season, he shared his doubts. Emmanuel Petit, who had been promoted from the youth team, tells the story of being called to Wenger’s office two days after OM had beaten Monaco 3-0.
The coach played and then replayed a video of Marseille’s goals. He asked the 21-year-old Petit for his thoughts. Petit analysed earnestly. The meeting was effectively a test. “Several of us think some of our players may have been bribed by Marseille,” Wenger told the player. Petit, who Wenger later brought to Arsenal, had been eliminated as a suspect.
Tapie (back left) was caught authorising bribes (Reuters)
Doubts trailed others. A year later, Tapie was caught authorising bribes to be paid to players from Valenciennes, OM’s opponents in the last game of the domestic season. The champions were penalised with relegation. That year, Monaco had finished three points behind Marseille. In the previous four campaigns, all won by OM, Monaco had twice finished second.
So an implicit question lingers about Wenger’s Monaco spell: How much more, in a clean league, might he have collected beyond the single Ligue 1 title and a French Cup, won in 1991? His allies from that time tend not to want to dwell on the ugly shadow of a malevolent Marseille, preferring to recall the good times and the legacy, notably from a Monaco academy Wenger attentively nourished and the launch pad, under his watch, for a trio of France’s 1998 World Cup winners, Petit, Thierry Henry and Lilian Thuram.
Wenger helped launch the career of Thierry Henry at Monaco (Reuters)
Better for Monégasques to reminisce about them, or about nights like the 6-1 against Club Brugge, when the young coach’s words inspired his players to a 2-0 lead after eight minutes, and to 5-0 up within half an hour. Wenger’s Arsenal could use some of that tomorrow.
