http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568315/s/4469d052/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cchelsea0C114737890CJose0EMourinho0Eclaims0EArsenal0Eare0Eback0Ein0Ethe0Etitle0Erace0Bhtml/story01.htm
Jose Mourinho claims Arsenal are back in the title race
By Matt Law, Stamford Bridge
7:40PM GMT 15 Mar 2015
Comments
Jose Mourinho declared that Arsenal have made it a three-way race for the Premier League title after Chelsea squandered the chance to take an eight-point lead at the top of the table.
Diego Costa’s header was cancelled out by a Dusan Tadic penalty, as Chelsea could only follow Manchester City’s defeat to Burnley with a 1-1 draw against Southampton.
Third-placed Arsenal have won eight of their last nine Premier League games to move seven points behind Chelsea and host the Blues at the Emirates on April 26.
Chelsea manager Mourinho believes Arsenal are now in the title race, but questioned whether or not Arsene Wenger’s men have momentum on their side.
Asked whether Arsenal are title rivals, Mourinho replied: “Of course. Of course. Seven points behind Chelsea and one less match to play than Chelsea.
"I keep thinking whether our opposition is better than them [over the run-in], but I think so. Both teams are in the race.”
•Chelsea held by outstanding Southampton
•Mourinhos's men too reliant on Courtois and other things we learnt
But on whether or not Arsenal are a bigger threat than City because of recent results, Mourinho added: “Which momentum? 3-1 against Monaco or 3-0 against West Ham? It depends on the momentum.”
Mourinho was frustrated by the fact Chelsea failed to take full advantage of City’s defeat, but is happy with a six-point lead and a game in hand.
“I have two perspectives,” said Mourinho. “One perspective is a draw at home to Southampton is not a good result. For me, that perspective is very acceptable because I have this feeling. And the second perspective is we had a lead of five points from second, and now it’s six with one less match to play.
“If someone had told me in August that at the end of March we’d be six points in front with a match in hand, I’d have signed for that immediately.”

Nemanja Matic was judged to have brought down Sadio Mané by referee Mike Dean for Southampton’s penalty. Mourinho questioned the decision, claiming only Sky TV thought it was a spot-kick.
“I went to Sky and they told me that their pundits said it was a penalty,” said Mourinho. “I went to the BBC and they said it wasn’t a penalty. I went to the radios and they said it wasn’t. Now I come here and I think I understand you’re saying it’s not a penalty.”
Paying the penalty: Nemanja Matic was judged to have brought down Sadio Mané
Matic was booked for conceding the penalty and was lucky to avoid a second yellow card for another foul on Mané early in the second half, prompting Mourinho to replace the midfielder with Ramires.
“When that penalty is given you have to believe that the second yellow could come,” said Mourinho. “With fast players like Mané coming out of midfield, driving the ball, that could happen. If you remember Ramires’ red card against Villa, obviously you are afraid of it.”
Southampton manager Ronald Koeman claimed Dean was right to award the penalty and that Matic could have been sent off, saying:
“I think the penalty is a penalty and in the second half there was a foul that maybe could be a [second] yellow card. But I’m not supporting referees showing eight, nine, 10 yellows every game. The referee did a great job today.”
