http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568759/s/43ec5b3d/sc/30/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cmotorsport0Cformulaone0C114436590CFormula0EOne0Eminnows0Eboosted0Eby0E20A0Emillion0Eadvance0Efrom0EF10Echief0EBernie0EEcclestone0Bhtml/story01.htm
Formula One minnows boosted by £20 million advance from F1 chief Bernie Ecclestone
By Daniel Johnson, F1 Correspondent
8:34PM GMT 01 Mar 2015
Comments
Bernie Ecclestone has agreed to give Formula One’s three smallest teams a £20 million advance to avert a potential disaster for the first race in Australia, amid fears that there could have been just 12 cars on the grid.
The Daily Telegraph understands that at a meeting on Thursday, Ecclestone promised to bring forward prize-money payments with Force India, Lotus and Sauber all perilously low on cash flow. It is planned that each team will receive a $10 million (£6.5 million) windfall by the end of this week to enable them to compete in Melbourne on March 15.
Ecclestone, 84, had already moved March’s payment forward by a week, helping Force India make the final pre-season test in Barcelona, and is said to be “sympathetic” to their plight. The move requires the approval of the six other teams but this is not an obstacle as the sport’s minnows have not been promised any increase in prize money.
Force India missed the first two pre-season tests with money short, while Lotus and Sauber have faced an uncertain financial future for months. The demise of Marussia – who have now exited administration – and Caterham have put pressure on the team’s suppliers, with many needing their fees earlier than anticipated.
Bob Fernley, Force India’s deputy team principal, said: “Bernie has promised support, they will be able to do the first few races.”
No light in McLaren's horror testing
Alonso place in Australia uncertain
Alonso out of hospital... but may miss Australia
'What sort of F1 would it be without the British GP?'
Ecclestone was presented with a headache by the new Ferrari team principal, Maurizio Arrivabene, who sat in the stands at pre-season testing in protest at plans to cut the number of paddock passes.
“I don’t like the paddock empty, it’s not the right way” said Arrivabene.
In testing itself, Mercedes are well out front. They have completed more laps than anyone else. McLaren struggled again, sitting out the morning before Jenson Button got going in the afternoon.
