http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/637567/s/20f12152/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cengland0C93711380CSpains0Emagical0Eteam0Eshow0Ejust0Ehow0Efar0Ebehind0EEngland0Ehave0Efallen0Ein0Ethe0Einternational0Egame0Bhtml/story01.htm
Spain’s magical team show just how far behind England have fallen in the international game
By Henry Winter
12:00AM BST 03 Jul 2012
Comments
Uefa’s technical director mentioned he had first seen the keeper competing in the under-16 championship. “Absolutely!’’ replied Casillas, his eyes lighting up. “My first European medal!’’
Casillas owns a few more medals now from assorted age-group levels, including two at senior level, plus of course a World Cup bauble from Johannesburg.
He has never forgotten how the journey began, still recalling the pride of successfully representing Spain with the under-16s. “He was so excited about it,’’ recalled Roxburgh, sitting in the garden of a Kiev hotel yesterday, reflecting on this magical Spanish team that had just torn apart Italy 4-0 in the final of Euro 2012.
England take note. Spain take international football seriously, building a talent reservoir so that Casillas starts while his understudy is of the calibre of Pepe Reina, a wonderfully upbeat presence around the camp by all accounts.
“Angel Villar Llona [the Spanish FA president] decided that youth development was the key to the future 20 years ago, that coaching education was crucial,’’ continued Roxburgh.
Fiesta time in Madrid ... again
Butland set for Team GB call-up
Match report: Spain make history with Euro 2012 victory
Platini will sour a winning formula
Platini wants Euro 2020 hosted by 12 cities
Casillas: I look up to Buffon
“They’ve had 20 years of developing that. This is the end product. It doesn’t come by chance. One of the things that troubles me is a few countries don’t treat national youth teams properly. Clubs don’t release players who miss out on the value of that education, playing in tournaments at youth level.’’
Premier League clubs are notorious for withdrawing prospects, sometimes meaning a youngster gets little game-time, although the planned Under-21 League should improve matters. “We go on about developing young players but there’s a glass ceiling they sometimes hit,’’ continued Roxburgh.
“They have all the potential in the world, but the only way of realising that potential is actually performing at the highest level, mixing with the best. The Premier League is fantastic but it’s a challenge for England in bringing through English players.’’
England’s anticipated quarter-final exit from Euro 2012 has prompted much debate about the state of the national game. Unfortunately, too many people within club football and the media remain resistant to the pressing need for a winter break. “It’s clearly a good idea,’’ replied Roxburgh.
“The medical side shows that. There’s an intensity in every game in the Premier League so when players go into tournaments, it’s not just the physical element but the mental tiredness that is the factor.’’
Many within club football and the media have been resistant to the crucial need for a university of coaching, a National Football Centre. Fortunately, St George’s Park opens imminently, training up a legion of coaches to work with kids.
Not before time. “Italy have had Coverciano for 50 years,’’ observed Roxburgh. “Now the FA have built it, they will work even harder on coaching education and player development.’’ FA youth-development reforms promoting small-sided games are a start.
Academies are slowly changing, becoming more responsive to the importance of technique as instilled in Spanish talent factories.
“Iniesta and Xavi would never have made it six years ago in a British team,’’ said Roberto Martinez, Wigan Athletic’s truly enlightened manager. “The first selection is 'not tall enough, not strong enough’.
“But I hate it when people say England’s players cannot be as technical as Spanish. If you look at what we’ve done in the last five years, the English player is technical. It’s the age 18-21 we have to improve on.”
It is about bridging the gap, getting on the pitch. Many managers, existing with the tyranny of results, prefer trusted imports to raw potential.
It is no coincidence that the managers with the most job security, Sir Alex Ferguson and Arsène Wenger, are prepared to nurture players, occasionally sending them on loan during that difficult 18-21 period before blooding them.
“What Sir Alex does is significant,’’ added Roxburgh. “He farms them out when they are younger, sending them on loan to Sunderland, wherever, to get experience.’’ Danny Welbeck learned at the Stadium of Light. Tom Cleverley was at Watford, then Wigan Athletic.
At Wenger’s Arsenal, many hopes rest on Jack Wilshere, fighting his way back determinedly from injury. “Going to Bolton on loan made Wilshere a player for Arsenal,’’ said Martinez. “He got out of it an understanding that it’s a survival business.
He realised he was fighting for his career. It makes you humble. Life and football has a meaning. And that’s what we’re missing from 18 to 21.’’
Spend any time in the company of Roxburgh and Martinez and the word “humble” peppers their conversations. There is a humility to this great Spanish team. “Vicente Del Bosque is so humble – like most of his players,’’ said Roxburgh. “Vicente told his players on Sunday: 'You are only football players – but you represent the face of Spain.’
“The Barca players are noted for their humility and it shows in the work-rate and the way they behave to other people. That all comes from the youth programme.’’
Spanish academies, particularly Barcelona’s La Masia, aim to mould good characters as well as good players. “In Spain, if you’re not humble and don’t work hard and have a family ethic they just don’t want you,’’ said Roxburgh.
“Even if one or two of them might have started as rebels, they quickly learn to conform to the culture. If they don’t behave properly, that’s it. Xavi and Iniesta are quite shy but they express themselves on the pitch.’’
Roxburgh’s sentiments were echoed by Martinez. “Ability on its own is not enough,’’ said the Spaniard. “It’s the one who’s the better professional who gets through.
"We make it too easy in England. In Spain if a player does a mistake he’s out. It’s such a competitive environment.
"Between 16 and 19 they might show you what they can be as players but really the ones who are going to win games and be successful pros are the consistent characters.’’
The Premier League academy system has sadly produced more than a few who fail to take responsibility on and off the pitch. Too cosseted. Too full of themselves.
“We give too much to the youngsters,” said Martinez. The FA’s Gareth Southgate concurred. “We are talking about decision-makers but we do everything for them,’’ said Southgate, talking in Warsaw.
“If they were to fly out here, could they check themselves in?” Meanwhile, Casillas was busy checking out of Kiev, armed with another medal.
