http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/672978/s/408e1088/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Ceuro0E20A160C112341680CEuro0E20A160Ereview0EAll0Efour0Ehome0Enations0Estill0Ein0Ewith0Echance0Eof0Equalifying0Bhtml/story01.htm
Euro 2016 review: All four home nations still in with chance of qualifying
11:05AM GMT 17 Nov 2014
Comments
The idea that all four home nations (plus the Republic of Ireland) might reach France next summer always seemed a little far-fetched, but it is only the Irish sides, north and south, who may feel their chances of qualification are in any way diminished after a fourth round of fixtures.
Northern Ireland's victory in Greece last month lost a little bit of its lustre when the Faroe Islands achieved the same feat on Friday, bringing a swift end to Claudio Ranieri's spell in Athens.
Though they were beaten 2-0 by Romania, and were under pressure for most of the game, Michael O'Neill will still feel that they can hold down a place in the top two in the final shake up.
Scotland's deserved win over the Irish at Celtic Park, courtesy of a Shaun Maloney strike that improves from every angle, gives them the edge over their Celtic neighbours in Group D, which is living up to pre-qualifying expectations as by far the most competitive group.
But the elephant in the group is Poland, whose 4-0 thrashing of Georgia in Tblisi suggests that they will take some stopping if, as expected, it ends up in a three-way shoot-out for second spot.
Uefa to investigate San Siro crowd trouble
How Strachan turned Scotland around
Anya declares Scotland 'confident of beating England'
Belgium v Wales: as it happened
Scotland's draw in Warsaw looks better in light of the Poles' most recent display but it is becoming clear that the group could well be decided on head-to-heads which makes the Scots' trip to Dublin next June and Poland's visit to Glasgow 11 months from now the vital contests.
The Republic of Ireland will focus on how much football is left in the group but their timid display in Glasgow suggests that confidence gained from their strong opening may have ran too high. Martin O'Neill's side still have to face Poland twice and four points from those fixtures (as well as victory over Scotland in the return in Dublin) are imperative if they are to claim an automatic qualification piece.
But the performance of the weekend, as far as British and Irish sides are concerned, came from Chris Coleman's Wales who remain unbeaten with eight points from four games following a goalless draw against Belgium, ranked No 4 in the world.
Wales rode their luck at times – from minute one to 97 to be precise – but successful qualification campaigns are often built on such fortuitous rearguard performances.
England continue to be simultaneously successful and soul-destroying. But with four wins from four games qualification is effectively assured and if this future we are constantly told Roy Hodgson is building towards is ever to actually arrive then now is the time for the England manager to settle on a formation and a core of players and avoid a repeat of the absurd situation of last summer when England were trying out new formations and players in new roles for the first time in World Cup matches.
If there was ever an opportunity to fine-tune a side in competitive matches it is in a group that has less jeopardy than a repeat of Educating Joey Essex on ITV+1. Evan Fanning
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
England limitations exposed
Roy Hodgson celebrates England's equaliser (ACTION IMAGES)
England got the job done on Saturday but not before significant limitations were exposed by Slovenia in Roy Hodgson’s new diamond formation. It is a system that channels plenty of bodies through the midfield and helps England contain opponents as well as potentially also setting the tempo for the match but, against less adventurous opposition, the creative options can become predictable.
That is why it worked to perfection against Switzerland, who took the game to England, but left the players looking one-dimensional and lacking in ideas for an hour at Wembley on Saturday. It was only a flash of individual quality from Wayne Rooney that changed the game. That is not to say the diamond formation needs changing – England have made progress since the World Cup – but Hodgson does need to work on alternative options if his team are really to progress. The limitation with the diamond relates to the lack of width and, while Nathaniel Clyne and Kieran Gibbs did try to get forward from full-back, Slovenia were practically able to negate by focussing their resources on containing the threat through the middle.
Hodgson’s team became more effective by simply quickening up their passing but they must also work on a system that gets the best from the pace they potentially have out wide in Raheem Sterling and now Theo Walcott. If they have more than one way of playing, England really can think about not just qualifying for Euro 2016 but actually again challenging the leading nations. Jeremy Wilson
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hard work starts now for Wales
Gareth Bale salutes the Wales fans (GETTY IMAGES)
Wales celebrated as though they had qualified for Euro 2016 following the 0-0 draw against Belgium in Brussels – a huge result for Chris Coleman’s team which merited the joyous reaction in the King Baudouin Stadium.
But while the point maintains Wales’ unbeaten start to the qualifying campaign, the reality is that the hard work has only just begun. The standings in Group B on April 1 next year will signpost success or otherwise for Coleman’s players, rather than the warm glow of a hard-earned draw in Belgium.
And it is Israel, rather than Belgium, who Wales should now be focusing on as their direct rivals for an automatic qualification spot for France 2016. Israel’s 3-0 victory against Bosnia-Herzegovina in Haifa on Sunday evening moved them to the top of the group with nine points from nine.
They face Wales at home in their next game on March 28, followed by the visit of Belgium three days later, so it is vital that Coleman’s team emerge with at least a point from their trip to Israel and then hope that Belgium come away with a victory in order to push the Israelis down to third place.
Israel have knocked on the door of qualification on several occasions in recent campaigns, but failed to make the breakthrough. This campaign offers them their best chance of success, just as it does for Wales, and their head-to-head fixtures will be decisive.
So while earning a point in Belgium is a major positive for Wales, their qualification prospects will ultimately rest on their encounters with Israel. And the trip to Haifa in March is already looking like becoming the most important game for Welsh football in over a decade. Mark Ogden
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Volatile Keane the ideal distraction
Roy Keane defended Martin O'Neill (GETTY IMAGES)
A first competitive defeat for the Republic of Ireland under Martin O’Neill has not gone down well and it has created some tension between Roy Keane and the Irish media too.
The criticism of the team’s performance against Scotland was possibly justified they did not play well offensively, but it has still been a good start to the qualifying campaign and nobody can deny progress has been made over the last 12 months.
One defeat, albeit against one of their main rivals in the group was a setback, but as well as criticism of the performance, questions have also been asked about Keane and whether he is too much of a distraction to be an effective assistant manager.
Such a charge would be swiftly dismissed by O’Neill, who has enjoyed working with his younger colleague. He was quick to absolve Keane of any blame in the altercation with a fan at the team hotel, which “distracted” the team in the build up to the Scotland match, and has praised the impact he has on the players.
Keane doesn’t have friends in football – or so he tells us – but his relationship with O’Neill is a close one.
You could see that in the way Keane came out fighting for the manager when conducting his own media duties over the weekend.
First, Keane took on Everton manager Roberto Martinez, on O’Neill’s behalf, over the availability of two of Ireland’s best players, Seamus Coleman and James McCarthy. Keane accused Martinez of putting pressure on the players to declare themselves unfit on international duty and added that, he thought, O’Neill had been badly treated by the Spaniard as a result.
And then came the verbal spar with journalists, who he accused of writing “lies” about him following the hotel incident last week.
It was classic Keane, but it was also useful. Nobody will be analysing the team’s deficiencies, or questioning selection and tactical decisions on Monday. Nobody will be criticising the players, too many of whom played badly in Glasgow. It was an Alex Fergusonesque trick.
Keane is a distraction at times, but he is a good one. That is precisely why O’Neill likes him. It was also quite touching hearing Keane go to battle, verbally, on O’Neill’s behalf.
The loyalty they have shown to each other in the last week is an encouraging sign this partnership will continue to be a good one for the Irish. Luke Edwards
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Scots growing in stature
Shaun Maloney scores for Scotland (REUTERS)
The Scots extended their impressive run of form with a victory over the Republic of Ireland that once again highlighted the resilience that has become a trademark under Gordon Strachan. As they demonstrated against Germany in Dortmund and Poland in Warsaw, they have the capacity to absorb a difficult start and adjust to have their say in how the contest will unfold.
Ireland’s frequent use of the long ball to their front men frustrated the Scots in their desire to get possession and play on the deck, but when they decided to allow the Irish space in the middle of the park to force Jon Walters to come deeper to get the ball to feet, the flow of the contest shifted in Scotland’s favour.
In the absence of a dedicated striker with a record of scoring, goals have had to come from elsewhere and, for the second game in succession, Shaun Maloney responded with an accomplished strike, which in this case proved to be the winner. The Group D table shows Scotland level with Germany and the Republic on seven points and Poland on 10 points – but the Scots are the only side still to play Gibraltar. Roddy Forsyth
