http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604282/s/3d216538/sc/40/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cfinance0Cpersonalfinance0Cfameandfortune0C110A0A57230CLaura0ETrott0EI0Eride0Efor0Emedals0Enot0Emoney0Bhtml/story01.htm
Laura Trott: 'I ride for medals not money'
By Nick McGrath
7:15AM BST 03 Aug 2014
Comments
• Tweet Laura at
How did your childhood experience influence your attitude to money?
My dad didn’t really like spending, he was always on about having savings. My mum, on the other hand, always loved to go out shopping.
I wasn’t really taught about the value of money. I just learnt it as I grew up, but I do remember my dad telling me that it was important to always have some savings, and that stuck with me. I’ve always believed that putting money aside is a good thing.
Are you a spender or a saver?
How to get rich? Run really fast
How anti-capitalist Michael Moore built a £30m fortune
I earned just £220 a go for 'Allo 'Allo!
Trevor Baylis: I should've made more from my wind-up radio
'Strictly was well-paid - Nationwide was better'
UB40's Ali Campbell: 'I'm glad I was bankrupt'
A bit of both, really. I love going to the shops and buying clothes and make-up. I’m lucky that I’ve been able to buy a house. Silly as it sounds, I really enjoyed buying my fridge-freezer.
But I like to save money as well. I’d hate to look at my bank account and see that I’ve got no money left.
Can you remember your first job and your first pay packet?
I never really had a job because I’ve been cycling from such a young age there was never really a time to have a job. My mum went into Starbucks once and asked if they had a job for me and they offered me one – but I never took it up because I couldn’t fit the job in with school and cycling.
The only money I managed to save was my dinner money. My parents gave me £10 a week for lunch and I’d just make myself jam sandwiches and save the money. The first time I ever got paid anything was by UK Sport.
Was that a salary or a one‑off payment?
One hundred pounds used to come in every month from the age of 15, which at that point felt like loads of money. My friends, who were still doing paper rounds or getting paid by their parents to do jobs around the house, were like “Wow, you earn loads of money”.
Did your UK Sport funding increase as your cycling career developed?
UK Sport have a funding system where all the payments are bracketed, so if you win a medal at the World Championship you go into the A bracket, and then B, C and so on. When I became Junior World Champion I got put into the D bracket, which I think was £10,000 a year, when I was 18. So at the time that again seemed like loads of money.
Sponsorship happened a bit later. Adidas was my only sponsor before the London Games in 2012, and UK Sport had handled the funding side of things up to that point.
Financially, how dramatic was the change after you won two gold medals at the 2012 London Olympics?
Everything changed. I got new sponsors because of my success at the Olympics, so I stayed with Adidas and then Prudential came on board as well, so they are my main partners now. And Wiggle Honda, my professional cycling team, pay me a salary too.

Golden girl: Laura Trott celebrates winning her second gold on the track at the London 2012 Olympics
How much greater is your income today?
It’s massively more than what I was on before the Games, but what you have to remember is that the UK Sport money was tax-free, whereas my income now isn’t. UK Sport no longer finances me, as once you earn over a certain amount of money you can’t take your funding any more. The purpose of the funding is to help young athletes find their feet. Once you’re above that level you’re on your own.
Tell us about the RideLondon event
The event is in August, the week after the Commonwealth Games, which is great because hopefully it will mean people will be inspired to come out for the day.
For me the reason I got involved was to inspire the next generation of cyclists. Cycling has never felt like a job. To get paid for something that you absolutely love is amazing. I don’t feel like I work. I just do it because I love it and I get paid to do it. I just think: “What an easy way to earn a living.”
How does your income break down between sponsorship deals, prize money and personal appearances?
My main income comes from my sponsors. I also do the odd appearance here and there, like for the Disney Aim High mentorship campaign.
How much do you make for a personal appearance?
It depends what it’s for and for how long, but I actually have no idea what the numbers are. My agents deal with that side of things. I’ve been asked to do I’m a Celebrity … Get Me Out of Here! and I do get asked to do all sorts of things like that – but I don’t want to put my career on hold. I’d have to take three weeks off to do something like that. Maybe it’s something I’d think about after it’s all ended.
Does money make you happy?
Money is important and it would be hard not to have it, but on its own it wouldn’t make me happy. It’s the other things that make you happy. Winning medals and being a successful cyclist is obviously a big motivating factor. But just spending time on the sofa with my boyfriend [fellow Team GB Olympic gold medallist Jason Kenny] and my two dogs keeps me happy.

Laura Trott and boyfriend Jason Kenny share a kiss after their Olympic triumphs
Do you look after your own finances?
I’m really lucky as my dad’s an accountant, so he deals with all of that for me.
What are the main financial lessons you’ve learnt?
I’ve learnt a lot about tax over the years. My dad has had to explain to me what it’s all about – the fact that all the money that goes into your account isn’t necessarily your money.
What have been your best and worst financial decisions?
The best would be buying my flat in Manchester city centre, which I’m currently renting out. I’d rather not say how much I paid for it but it was a good decision as I’m making earnings from the flat. As for bad investments, I haven’t invested in anything yet apart from the flat. I own the flat, and Jason and I have got a house separate to that.
How do you prefer to pay: credit card, debit card or cash?
I use cards all the time. I never carry any cash around. I’ve always got a debit card on me. I’ve never had a credit card and my dad’s always been against them. He’s always encouraged me to have a debit card as you can only spend the money you’ve got.
What’s your most treasured possession?
For something I’ve bought, my dogs; for something I haven’t bought it would obviously be the Olympic medals.
Are your medals insured?
No. You can’t insure them. Insurers can’t put an amount on it. They can’t say how much they’re worth.
If at some point you decided to sell your medals, like some of England’s 1966 World Cup-winning footballers, how much would you want?
Millions, literally millions. I could never sell them for less than a million as I worked so hard to get them. If somebody wanted to steal them and melt them down they’d probably be worth about £100 in terms of the value of the gold, but to me they’re priceless.
What has been your most extravagant purchase?
I bought my sister a car, an Alfa Romeo MiTo, after the Games, so I guess that was quite out there. And for me I bought a house straight after the Games.
Are you a generous tipper?
I wouldn’t say generous but if there’s not been a service charge already added I’ll give them 20pc or whatever it is. I tend to let Jason deal with that. The house we live in is both of ours so we have a joint account.
What’s the biggest drain on your finances?
Apart from the house, probably the dogs. We buy them special dog food that costs £3 a dish, so that adds up.
What do you like least about dealing with money?
Doing my tax and VAT. It’s so annoying. I let my dad do it but it’s so complicated. It stresses me out. People ask me if I mind my dad sorting out my finances but I’m more than happy. I’d put my life into my dad’s hands.
Laura Trott is ambassador for the Prudential RideLondon, August 9-10 ()
