http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568364/s/449198fc/sc/24/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ccricket0Cinternational0Cindia0C114825360CIndia0Ecrush0EBangladesh0Eby0E10A90Eruns0Eto0Eremain0Eon0Ecourse0Efor0EWorld0ECup0Etitle0Edefence0Bhtml/story01.htm
India crush Bangladesh by 109 runs to remain on course for World Cup title defence
By Scyld Berry, in Melbourne
11:53AM GMT 19 Mar 2015
Comments
India put Bangladesh away by a predictably large margin - 109 runs – to reach the second semi-final in Sydney. India’s batting may not be so robust as it was in 2011, but the defending champions are stronger in pace bowling now and well-equipped to retain their crown in Australian conditions.
But Bangladesh were far from humiliated, and were indeed in contention for the first third of the match. At 132-3 after 31 overs India had yet to break free and, to do so, it took an innings of 137 off 126 balls by Rohit Sharma that was touched with genius after he had reached his hundred.
Sharma stroked the first ball of the game through the covers: he does not play shots but strokes, or even caresses. Bangladesh then tightened up, their seamers bowled wicket to wicket, their three spinners were crafty, and they fielded with a tigerish spirit.
To such a combination it was, in fact, no disgrace for England to lose. It used to be a disgrace to be beaten by Bangladesh but not any more. After a mis-spent youth, the teenager of international cricket is growing up.
• India v Bangladesh: as it happened • Australia’s batting remains brittle - Pakistan could take advantage
Sharma therefore had his work cut out to give India’s innings some impetus. Virat Kohli was no help - he threw his bat at a wide one and was caught behind – and neither was the pitch. On a hot and windy afternoon the ball did not come on to the bat so fluently as it did later under lights.
The maker of the highest one-day international score of 264, Sharma assumed responsibility for batting through India’s innings and reached 50 off 70 balls. Like Ian Bell, he had his sticky moments when the new balls lost their hardness, but unlike Bell he batted through them.
Sharma reached his 100 off 108 balls, before divesting himself of his hairshirt and replacing it with a suit, no less, of pure silk. Such was his timing that his back-foot force could beat fielders to the fence 90 yards away, while no fielders were involved when he pulled off the front foot.
With Suresh Raina, Sharma shared a stand of 122 off 98 balls. Under their assault Bangladesh fell back, whereas in the first 30 overs they had kept a slip or two, and gradually the teenager was brought down to size, before being sent to his room.
Two significant umpiring decisions went India’s way. When 90 Sharma pulled to deep square-leg a full toss that was adjudged a no-ball by Aleem Dar, a judgment widely questioned. The ball was barely waist-height, but Sharma was on his toes at the time.
The second decision was a DRS review after Raina had been given not out by Ian Gould. England may not be represented in the knockout stages by any players, but they are by umpires.
Now that communications between the on-field umpires and the third or television umpire are broadcast for all to hear, Steve Davis – after consulting the replays – was heard to tell Gould that his not-out decision should stand. It was as close as could be though to “Raina lbw Mortaza 10” rather than umpire’s call.
When Bangladesh chased India’s 302, they were only in the hunt so long as Tamim Iqbal’s blade was flashing. When he edged low to the keeper, and Gould asked if the ball had carried, Davis replied: “I can see the ball’s gone cleanly into the gloves.” In the cause of transparency, will ICC meetings be broadcast next?
India’s seamers have made judicious use of the bouncer, and Bangladesh’s main run-scorer in this tournament, Mahmudullah Riad, was caught hooking to fine-leg – a catch which took some fancy footwork and handiwork by Shikar Dhawan either side of the boundary rope. Thus India bowled and bounced out their opponents for the seventh time in this tournament.
