http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568364/s/44737ea3/sc/7/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0C114756170CRugbys0Ebest0Ecaptains0Erely0Eon0Eteamwork0Bhtml/story01.htm
Rugby's best captains rely on teamwork
By Steve James
4:46PM GMT 16 Mar 2015
Comments
What is the difference between captaincy and leadership? I raise the question because it was an interesting differentiation made by Sam Warburton in his column in last week.
Warburton captained Wales for a record 34th time last Saturday, putting in a mammoth man-of-the-match display in victory over Ireland, and before doing so, he said in his typically modest manner: “I think I am a leader in my own way, but I think I am still developing as a captain.”
Warburton is always a fascinating case study in this respect because he was such a reluctant captain and leader in the first place. When head coach Warren Gatland telephoned him in 2011 to ask him to take the captaincy job, Warburton’s first thought was 'I hate captaincy’. And he did. And at that stage that was because he hated the off-field aspects of the job. “I thought that was the main part of captaincy,” he says. Then he did not appreciate the on-field expectations, such as communicating with the referee, which he thinks he is still developing.
Some might argue that he is right, having been sin-binned by referee Wayne Barnes on Saturday, but then you have to remember that Gatland said one major reason why he selected Warburton as the captain of the 2013 British and Irish Lions was the way he found the ear of referee Steve Walsh when Wales beat England in Cardiff. And Warburton was not even captain that day!
Gatland had identified Warburton as the perfect role model on and off the field. He does not need to say much. He can just lead by his actions, helped by such leaders as Alun-Wyn Jones. And, boy, did Warburton lead last Saturday.
So isn’t the truth that in rugby union the leading is much more important than the captaining? And that you also require a bevy of leaders across the field?
As England head coach Stuart Lancaster said recently when talking of his captain, Chris Robshaw: “The captain as iconic leader is not how it works in rugby. You have leaders across the field and our strength is in the collective. Chris represents that collective and he does it brilliantly. We have told the players it is their team, so they need to push and drive it.” It is the same in most sports really. Yes, in cricket the captain is a much more important figure with the constant tactical decisions required, but he is nothing without his leaders in batting and bowling, in other words his senior players.
Just look at England’s failure out in the Cricket World Cup. Where were their senior players, their leaders? Curled up and hiding in the corner, that’s where. And when the captain, in this case Eoin Morgan, is with them, then that is a big problem. In rugby it can be in just one game where that is a problem. When England lost out in Ireland recently Robshaw had one of the worst games of his career. It had an effect. The other senior players disappeared with him.

Richie McCaw parades the 2011 World Cup with the All Blacks (Getty Images)
Performance is paramount. As Warburton says: “Unless you have an eight-out-of-10 performance as captain, there will be questions raised.” Richie McCaw has expanded this further: “There is no point in trying to be a captain if you are not worth your place in the side,” he once wrote. “Maybe once a century, someone in some sport defies the convention. England once had a cricket captain called Mike Brearley who was not the world’s greatest opening bat but who had a mind like Plato. He was a successful leader.
“But don’t try that at home. First and foremost you have to be good enough to be out on the field in your own right and you have to be playing well. If you are struggling with your own game it makes it so much harder to smile and help others. I have been there.” Rarely, though.
McCaw has captained New Zealand in 100 Tests, and they have won 88 of them. No one can match that number in charge or that winning percentage, although Martin Johnson, for England and the Lions, did achieve the second-best rate of 82.22 per cent in his 45 Tests as captain.
In a Rugby World Cup year, it is worth perusing the past winning captains: David Kirk, Nick Farr-Jones, Francois Pienaar, John Eales, Johnson, John Smit and McCaw.
All great leaders and captains, but you can bet they all had a great group of leaders alongside them. That is the key.
