http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569413/s/4115a754/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cfrance0C11270A80A30CEmmanuel0EPetit0Eattacks0Esmug0Euntruthful0Eand0Ehypocritical0EFrench0Efor0Enot0Erevering0EThierry0EHenry0Bhtml/story01.htm
Emmanuel Petit attacks 'smug, untruthful and hypocritical' French for not revering Thierry Henry
By Jeremy Wilson
3:30PM GMT 03 Dec 2014
Comments
Emmanuel Petit has launched an extraordinary attack on the French, suggesting it may have been better if they had been “overrun” by Germany in the second world war and claiming that they have been “hypocritical and cowardly” in their treatment of Thierry Henry.
Petit was a team-mate of Henry at Arsenal from 1997 until 2000 and also as part of the French squad that won the 1998 World Cup. Henry is expected to retire from playing after announcing that he would not be staying with the New York Red Bulls and, asked for his favourite memories of France’s all-time record goalscorer, Petit unloaded on the French media and wider public.
“In England, they’ve built a statue of Thierry,” he is quoted as telling the French website sports.fr.
“That means a lot. He is revered there. This bad image [in the French press] of Thierry Henry, it annoys me. What can we reproach Henry for? His handball against Ireland? He helped France qualify for the World Cup in South Africa. He has done nothing. France is hypocritical and cowardly. Sometimes I think that if we’d been overrun by the Germans, we’d be better run.”
Petit then compared Henry’s media treatment in France to that of Wayne Rooney in England. “Wayne Rooney is not hated in England, even though he was not always right in his boots on the field and off,” he said. “Thierry Henry never had a bad move on the pitch and there were no stories in his private life. He’s not hated but he’s certainly not loved. He got screwed by the French press after his handball and has since not spoken to the French media.
Arsenal v Southampton: as it happened
Wenger: Henry should be picked for France-Brazil
Wenger: Title within three years
You can't control players 24 hours a day, says Wenger
“In France, he has no collusion with the press, so what? Perhaps because he was not smiling when he scored for Les Bleus. Well, that’s what I hate in this country.
“I have great difficulty with the French, I have never seen such arrogant, smug, lying and hypocritical people.”
Henry has said that he would like to help Arsenal win the Champions League in some sort of off-field capacity when he finishes playing. Arsene Wenger would be open to Henry returning but says that there would need to be a proper working role for his former player to fulfil. Wenger has also called on the French Football Federation to allow Henry to play one final international game against Brazil next March.
