http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570377/s/448539d4/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Crugby0Eworld0Ecup0C114792760CRugby0EWorld0ECup0E20A150Esix0Emonths0Eto0Ego0ERanking0Ethe0Eteams0Efrom0E20A0Eto0E10Bhtml/story01.htm
Rugby World Cup 2015 six months to go: Ranking the teams from 20 to 1
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570377/s/44811056/sc/38/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Csixnations0C1147890A60CEngland0Ev0EFrance0EJonathan0EJoseph0Eplays0Elike0Ethe0EFrench0Egreats0Eof0Eold0Ewhich0Eis0Ethey0Elove0Ehim0Esays0EMike0ECatt0Bhtml/story01.htm
England v France: Jonathan Joseph plays like the French greats of old - which is why they love him, says Mike Catt
By Mick Cleary, Rugby Union Correspondent
10:00PM GMT 17 Mar 2015
Comments
The French newspapers have dubbed it L’Amoroso, a love affair with Jonathan Joseph, the type of thrilling player who used to be the preserve of Les Bleus, a Jo Maso or Philippe Sella or Yannick Jauzion, with diamonds in the soles of their shoes.
As the French public have turned on the current regime for the biff and bash of the team’s play, so they have looked longingly across the Channel at the likes of Joseph, the top try scorer in the Six Nations Championship with four, and the fly-half George Ford, players with vision to see what is on offer and the nerve to go for it.
If France were to be beaten at Twickenham on Saturday, the Six Nations trophy won with Joseph having prospered, then even the opposition supporters might stand to applaud.
The French media have fallen in love with Joseph
Few know the 23-year-old Bath centre as well as Mike Catt, the England attacking skills coach who first came across him at London Irish. Catt, who was no mean midfield operator himself, recognised what set Joseph apart.
“He gets the game, sees the picture, can live in the moment and play what is in front of him,” Catt said as England began their preparations in earnest ahead of the championship finale. “It is all about decision-making and JJ [Joseph] with George Ford at fly-half, both get it.
“They can both see what is in front of them and make the right decision, whether it is running out of the 22 or whatever. New Zealand have a lot of players like that. JJ is also a very good communicator, as is George, and they feed off each other. It is about understanding [the systems] and then there is the individual magic, which you can’t coach. We give the players the freedom to go out and do what is right at any particular time.”
Mike Catt knows Joseph from their days at London Irish (Getty Images)
A lot is made of the twinkling feet of Joseph, his ability to sidestep in heavy traffic, shown to good effect against Scotland when a swift change of direction enabled him to cut inside and get over the line for his fourth touchdown of the tournament. Yet Catt highlights a far more prosaic element in Joseph’s repertoire, one that may not have the masses rising from their seats but which brings a warm inner glow to any coach.
“JJ has got a low, if any, error count at international level,” Catt said. “He does a lot of good things and he doesn’t have those mistakes in him. That is critical at this level.”
• Six reasons why Wales will win the Six Nations • Six reasons why Ireland will win the Six Nations • Six reasons why England will win the Six Nations
Joseph was first capped by Stuart Lancaster on the 2012 tour to South Africa but for all his talent he lacked the maturity to seize the moment. “You get a better understanding of what it is all about [as you get older],” Joseph said. “As a youngster I used to just catch the ball and sidestep.” Thankfully, that quality has not been drilled out of him.
France are well aware of what Joseph can do, for several of them saw his skill at close quarters when Bath took Toulouse apart in a Champions Cup match in January, a display that catapulted Joseph into the front line of reckoning for selection. The fringe candidate became prime contender. “For my head space, it was great to have that game,” Joseph said. “It was a big game for me.”
Joseph tore Toulouse apart earlier in the season (Rex Features)
So too, self-evidently, is Saturday. For all the opportunities missed against Scotland, there is no sign whatsoever of anxiety in English ranks. Quite the opposite. They firmly believe that their attacking system just needs fine-tuning. “[The system] is not broken, so everything is fixable,” Catt said. “It is just guys not implementing things.
“There were glaring opportunities and if we are to be a ruthless side we need to make sure we convert those points, but we are not going to throw the baby out with the bath water: 99 per cent of the things we did [in attack] were very good. We were frustrated not to get the points but we have addressed that. It is about ­sticking to what we are doing, because it is working, and then just touch-up the finishing.”
England’s focus has been on themselves, on getting the best from Joseph and his team-mates, although they are wary of what France might bring. “They have the ability to beat sides, as they showed when beating Australia in the autumn, and they can turn on the charisma,” Catt said. “How France turn up, though, is not up to us.”
