http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570377/s/43e63143/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Csixnations0C114422470CWales0Egritty0Ewin0Ein0EFrance0Esuddenly0Emakes0ESix0ENations0Etitle0Ea0Ereal0Epossibility0Bhtml/story01.htm
Wales' gritty win in France suddenly makes Six Nations title a real possibility
By Oliver Brown, at the Stade de France
7:30PM GMT 28 Feb 2015
Comments
“We’ll always have Paris,” the Welsh might say, to borrow Bogart’s immortal line from Casablanca. While this was not a night to be recalled with much aching nostalgia in decades to come – the game was far too unsightly for that – the French capital was again a place of conquest for the marauders in red.
The Gauls versus le Pays de Galles: it is not even a contest on the latest evidence, as this courageous and committed performance by Warren Gatland’s players yielded a second straight victory at the Stade de France and a third in the past decade. When the final whistle sounded, La Marseillaise had long since been drowned out by the swelling refrain of Delilah.
All that was missing, perhaps, was the sight of George North’s father David, who during Wales’ win here in 2013 memorably dashed on to the pitch in a display of unhinged paternal exuberance.
That triumph ultimately set them on the path to a Six Nations title, despite a loss in their opening game, and it would take a brave soul to bet against a similar chain of events from here. Irrespective of the outcome in Dublin today, the Welsh are already salivating over their chances when they come to face Ireland at the Millennium Stadium in a fortnight’s time.
The defining try, born of a beautifully seamless move from Rhys Webb to Dan Lydiate to Dan Biggar, was almost too pretty for the grinding, attritional hour that preceded it. But it encapsulated the fashion in which Wales have learned to vanquish France: starve them of possession, eke out an advantage in the scrum, then sucker-punch them when they least expect it.
France v Wales: as it happened
Heroic Halfpenny downs France
Ireland v England: who comes out on top?
O'Connell says England are better than 2003
Be in no doubt: this Welsh choir is in close harmony now. While they were brittle against England and deeply unconvincing at Murrayfield, they found their range with this tour de force, anchored by a titanic effort from Gatland’s forwards.
North must have the happiest associations with this stadium.
Amid the collective euphoria, let us not forget this was an auspicious afternoon at a personal level, too, as he amassed 50 international caps. No 22 year-old before him had done so. Come to that, no 23-year-old had managed it, either. Joe Roff is counted as the next most precocious on the all-time list, having earned his 50th cap for Australia aged 24 and 39 days. Granted, a mere 47 of North’s were accumulated for Wales, plus three for the Lions on the 2013 tour of Australia, and he did not enjoy the privilege of leading out the team that is customarily afforded to those who win a half-century of caps in the scarlet jersey.
North claims, naturally, that his 50th cap in Welsh colours, likely to come in a World Cup warm-up game this summer, will mean more to him than this particular milestone. But it is still a giddying accomplishment – “absolutely amazing”, in the words of blindside Lydiate. It was testament to his obduracy that even returned for this encounter, having suffered what Gatland described as three “massive” blows to the head during the opening defeat to England in Cardiff.
Not that North would ever have countenanced missing this one. Paris, after all, was where he made one of the signature statements of his shooting-star career, scoring the crucial try in the 16-6 win two years ago.
Dan Biggar celebrates scoring his team's only try (REX FEATURES)
This time, George was not about to risk a repeat another appearance by his excitable dad, ensuring that North Snr was sitting way up in the nosebleed sections of this cavernous amphitheatre. We needed to wait a while for North’s first dazzling flourish here, as he charged at full pelt down the right to beat two Frenchmen, before being hauled down by Brice Dulin. This was one evening when he largely had to play understudy to the brilliant Biggar.
As for this France team, where are their game-winners, their talismen? Mathieu Bastareaud might have become something of a cult hero – he drew the lustiest cheer of any French player when he came on early to in place of Remi Lamerat – but Les Bleus look sorely in need of a kicker of the sophistication of Frédéric Michalak, such were the deficiencies of Camille Lopez and Morgan Parra with the boot.
It is fair to say the side cultivated by Philippe Saint-André is not extravagantly furnished in guile or subtlety of craft. Their response to Wales’ relentless pressure was simply to bring on the heavy artillery. Their replacement hooker, Uini Atonio, had the dubious distinction of being the biggest man in the history of Six Nations rugby, at 24 stone. As the match slid out of their grasp in the second half, after finding themselves derailed by Dan Biggar’s wonderful score, the displeasure of 80,000 fans rippled to the surface. Howls of derision rang out at the negativity of France’s tactics. Patrons here demand a higher aesthetic than this.
Only when Dulin surged over in the corner to kindle some late hope did the Tricolore flutter once more. France’s try was the first recorded against the Welsh in almost seven hours of play, encompassing four Six Nations matches and a World Cup semi-final. Not since a try by Vincent Clerc in the death throes of a 28-9 defeat four years ago had Wales allowed their line to be breached. It was the awakening, ultimately, that Wales needed, as they closed out the result with some Herculean defending. They march on with ominous intent.


