http://us.rd.yahoo.com/sports/rss/nascar/SIG=13576foan/*http%3A//sports.yahoo.com/news/ex-nascar-driver-arrested-arriving-sentencing-213055570--nascar.html
Ex-NASCAR driver arrested after arriving late for sentencing
ST. GEORGE, Utah (AP) -- A former NASCAR driver who led police on a 150 mph chase through three southwestern states was re-arrested Monday morning after showing up 45 minutes late for a sentencing hearing.
Timothy Tyler Andrew Walker, 35, was scheduled to be sentenced in southern Utah's Washington County on Monday morning for five charges stemming from the chase.
But after Walker failed to show, state Judge Eric Ludlow issued an arrest warrant for Walker, according to Washington County prosecutor Rachelle Shumway. When Walker arrived, Ludlow ordered his arrest.
Shumway said Walker was taken to the county jail, where he will be held without bail until a rescheduled sentencing March 30.
Messages seeking comment from Walker's lawyer, Trevor Terry, were not returned Monday.
The Spectrum newspaper in St. George reported that Terry told the judge he had spoken with his client Sunday night and had expected him in court.
Walker, of Hermosa Beach, California, pleaded guilty in December as part of a deal with prosecutors to avoid jail time.
Walker admitted to failure to stop for an officer and possession of a controlled substance, which are felonies. He also pleaded guilty to misdemeanor counts of impaired driving, possession of drug paraphernalia and having an open container of alcohol in the car.
He was expected to get probation in return for his guilty pleas, but Shumway said it's possible Walker's arrest could result in a different sentence.
Utah Highway Patrol troopers arrested Walker in January 2013 after a chase that began in Nevada and crossed into Arizona before reaching Utah. The chase reached 150 mph at times and wound through the Virgin River Gorge.
No one was injured in the pursuit.
Troopers reported finding methamphetamine, marijuana and vodka in the car.
Walker competed in 28 NASCAR races before the stock car racing association suspended him in 2007 for violating its drug policy.
