http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568400/s/446031a5/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cmotorsport0Cformulaone0C114720A190CSauber0Erelief0Eas0EGiedo0Evan0Eder0EGarde0Eabandons0Elegal0Ecase0Eand0Eagrees0Enot0Eto0Erace0Eat0EAustralian0EGrand0EPrix0Bhtml/story01.htm
Sauber relief as Giedo van der Garde abandons legal case and agrees not to race at Australian Grand Prix
By Daniel Johnson, F1 Correspondent in Melbourne
12:47AM GMT 14 Mar 2015
Comments
Sauber and their dropped driver Giedo van der Garde agreed a last-minute deal in court last night to avert a disaster for the team in the season-opening Australian Grand Prix.
Lawyers for both sides were vague on the details but a threat for bailiffs to seize Sauber’s cars – and even arrest team principal Monisha Kaltenborn – has been called off.
The settlement seems likely to involve some compensation for the Dutch driver and could potentially see him race later in the season. Van der Garde had accused the Swiss team of reneging on a deal to let him race this season.
“With respect to the interest in motorsport, and Formula One in particular, I have decided to give up my legal rights to race this weekend,” Van der Garde said last night. “As I am a passionate race driver this has been a very difficult decision for me. My management will continue talks with Sauber early next week to find a mutually acceptable situation.”
Bernie Ecclestone, F1’s supremo, was said to be furious with the 29-year-old and the team for failing to knock at his door before dragging the sport through the mud in court.
2015 F1 teams - ranked and rated
Bailiffs eye Sauber cars as driver row escalates
Fears for Sauber after Van der Garde court victory
How Bianchi crash left cloud over F1
The whole saga has pushed Sauber, already in dire financial circumstances, to the brink of collapse. Felipe Nasr and Marcus Ericsson, their two current drivers, bring around £20 million and this seems the obvious reason for why Van der Garde was dropped despite having a contract. The court orders against Sauber still stand but they have been cleared to race tomorrow.
Kaltenborn, a former lawyer, faced a series of questions over her position last night. Asked if she had considered resigning, she said: “I have not considered that.” She added: “It’s definitely a very negative impact on the team, because the situation was for a while unclear. We now have certain actions taken against the time and we are acting accordingly.”
Meanwhile, despite making it all the way to Melbourne, Manor’s extraordinary return to racing in Formula One may have to wait until the second race of the year. The team came up against the sport’s remarkable complexity, with a software failure meaning they could not make it out of the garage. When Manor were in administration over the winter, there had been plans to auction the team’s hard drives, which held all the information required to get a Formula One car going. However, in anticipation of being sold off, the memory was wiped. They came to Australia anyway but are now working desperately to reinstall the necessary programmes.
It seems unlikely Manor will race tomorrow. Graeme Lowdon, their sporting director, said: “There’s a lot of issues, none of which are a big surprise when you consider the work to get the team here in a very short space of time.”
Elsewhere, McLaren team principal Eric Boullier revealed that Fernando Alonso’s place on the grid for the Malaysian Grand Prix at the end of the month is now in the hands of doctors for the FIA. The Spaniard suffered a concussion in a testing accident on Feb 22 and will have to be cleared by motorsport’s governing body to race.
