http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604252/s/3e37cdf6/sc/8/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Clifestyle0C110A772840CMeet0Ethree0Esports0Estars0Eof0Ethe0Efuture0Bhtml/story01.htm
Meet three sports stars of the future
By Siân Ranscombe
8:00AM BST 07 Sep 2014
The BMX star
Ryan Brookes 10, lives in Preston with his parents, Ian and Sue, and brother, Alex, 11.
Photo: Polly Braden
Ryan Brookes has been BMX racing since he was three. ‘One of my first memories of BMX racing is doing a jump in the British Championships and falling off,’ he says. Unperturbed, he got back up. Ryan’s father, Ian, is now a coach at Ryan’s club, the Preston Pirates.
‘In 2006 the boys and I were walking past the track on London Road in Preston,’ he says. ‘When someone told us it was a BMX track, we went down one night and it just went from there.’
BMX: release your inner kid
Bright and beautiful
TeamSport's plans to bring glitz to go-karts
New sports minister took up judo to beat the racist bullies
‘It’s good having my dad as a coach because instead of having to organise things all the time, he’s always with me at home,’ Ryan says. ‘He has a lot of advice for me too.’ Ryan trains three times a week after school then has one day a week when, Ian says, ‘it’s just relaxing and messing about on the track’.
But to assume that for Ryan this is merely a hobby would be very wrong. He and Alex competed in the World Championships in New Zealand last year and are preparing for this year’s championships, slightly closer to home in Rotterdam. Ryan says competing in New Zealand was one of his favourite moments of his career so far. ‘I got to the last 16 but crashed in the semis. Hopefully this year I can get to the final.’
Photo: Polly Braden
‘There are events all the time,’ Ian says. ‘When we worked out this year’s calendar from March to September, which is the season, there was an event every weekend.’ Does it ever seem daunting to such a young competitor? ‘Sometimes it’s nerve-racking, but most of the time I’m fine,’ Ryan says.
His father adds, ‘Some of the tracks can be quite daunting when you look at them. In some of the indoor events at the World Championships there’s a five-metre start hill which is quite steep. Coming down that at 30mph and hitting the first jump can be quite frightening for an 11-year-old.’
Ryan, a keen Manchester United fan who plays football, cricket and basketball as well as BMX racing, lists London 2012 BMX reserve rider Kyle Evans and UCI BMX world champion Liam Phillips as his heroes. And it is no surprise which path Ryan hopes to go down once he has finished with school. ‘I want to be an Olympian,’ he says coolly.
‘I don’t know what year it’ll be but probably 2020.’
The judo champion
Darcie Hancocks 12, lives in Kidderminster with her parents, Sue and Ben, and has two sisters, Millie, 21, and Charis, 20
Photo: Polly Braden
‘I’ve held the titles of British Junior National Champion, British Schools Champion, Scottish Open Champion, Welsh Open Champion, West of England Open Champion, Eastern Area Open Champion,’ Darcie Hancocks lists. She could go on. Darcie started judo when she was six, having followed her older sisters, Charis and Millie, around the country, watching them both compete in the sport.
‘I was always asking my mum, “When can I start?” ’ says Darcie, who is now a member at Samurai Judo Club in Kidderminster, run by Andrew Haffner. ‘I like competing and going up against other people, but I just love the sport in general.’
She now competes on average once a month. ‘She’s very competition-savvy,’ her father, Ben, says. ‘But she’s first on the mat, last off the mat and never misses a session. She’s got so much energy she must be nuclear-powered.’
‘We normally do fitness training, because you need to be very fit in judo,’ Darcie says. ‘Then we do a bit of conditioning and strength training. Judo isn’t about punching and kicking, it’s more about movement and technique. You’ve got to have a good posture and back strength.’
As well as training at Samurai after school three times a week, Darcie now attends the purpose-built British Judo Centre of Excellence in Walsall every Wednesday, where she goes to train with competitors in the cadet category, aged between 14 and 17. Still a pre-cadet herself (which has an approximate age group of eight to 14), she trained on the mat with the Olympic silver medallist Gemma Gibbons earlier this year. ‘I cried when she won silver at London 2012,’ Darcie says. ‘And I also look up to Jessica Ennis.’
Photo: Polly Braden
‘Darcie’s not a big girl but she’s physically strong naturally,’ Ben says. ‘Her work ethic is immense. She wouldn’t sit playing on a PlayStation, she’d be out in the garden kicking a ball or climbing a fence. She does her school work before her judo, that’s a rule Sue and I have.’
As well as judo, Darcie is also a gifted footballer and has been scouted for local teams having been spotted playing in a boys’ team. ‘I love football and athletics too, but I want to be a world and Olympic champion at judo,’ she says.
‘She trains with me a bit but she leaves me behind,’ Ben, who trained in martial arts himself, says. ‘When she does occasionally lose it’s with a smile on her face. She congratulates her opponent and moves on to the next one.
‘If she ever said to me she didn’t want to do it any more, she wouldn’t do it any more,’ Ben adds. ‘But I don’t see that happening any time soon.’
The future F1 hopeful
Jonny Edgar 10, lives in Cumbria with his parents, Justin and Sally, and his sister, Jo, 12
Photo: Polly Braden
Jonny Edgar began competing in karting two years ago when he was eight years old. Last year he won his age group in the Association of British Kart Clubs’ Open Championship. ‘My grandad did it, my dad did it and my two uncles did it,’ Jonny says of his family’s involvement in the sport. His great-grandfather Iredale Edgar helped build one of the first karting tracks in Britain, at Rowrah, and his paternal grandfather was a 1977 champion.
Jonny took his first steps into the go-karting world aged three, in a tiny bambino kart, the beginning of a hobby that would go on to dictate his family’s weekends, but the competitions didn’t come until 2012. ‘My first race was a club race at Shenington and in one of the heats my kart got bent,’ he says matter-of-factly.
Jonny’s father, Justin, himself a former British champion, says, ‘We drive all around the country for Jonny’s races. We could be down at the bottom end of the country one week, and then up in Scotland the next. We did his winter testing in Lanzarote. He takes it very, very seriously.’
‘I don’t get nervous,’ says Jonny, who won the Cadet British Open Championship in June despite a fractured wrist. ‘I’ve grown out of the nerves now.’
Photo: Polly Braden
Jonny, who has a personal trainer to work on his fitness twice a week, practises on the track only at weekends and on Friday evenings so as not to disrupt his schoolwork. ‘The thing I like best about it is going fast,’ he says.
It’s not only the boys in Jonny’s family who have petrol in the blood – his grandmother Winnie was his grandfather Terry’s closest rival in the 1960s. These days it is his younger cousin Jessica, nine, taking to the wheel as part of the next generation of karting Edgars. ‘All the little kids want to do it,’
Justin says. ‘It’s just a dream at the moment but someone’s going to make it eventually. Lewis Hamilton was the youngest ever British champion at 11 years old in the class Jonny is in. Jonny won the British Open last year at nine, so he’s on the right track.’
And what is the ultimate goal for Jonny? His Twitter page @JonnyEdgar says it all. ‘One day, you WILL see me in Formula 1.’
