http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569252/s/43bf81a2/sc/38/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Cfrance0C114329150CFrance0Eloaded0Ewith0Eamphetamines0Ein0Efamous0EAll0EBlacks0Ewin0Bhtml/story01.htm
France 'loaded' with amphetamines in famous All Blacks win
By Mick Cleary
6:03PM GMT 24 Feb 2015
Comments
French rugby is bracing for further allegations of systematic doping after extracts published on Tuesday claimed that several of the France team who beat New Zealand in the famous 'Battle of Nantes’ in 1986 were high on amphetamines. There are other serious allegations of doping across the next couple of decades.
More revelations are expected on Wednesday when fuller extracts appear in the French weekly magazine L’Express, which has the rights to Rugby a Charges, l’enquête choc, a difficult title to translate as there is a play on words of charges meaning loaded (with drugs), as well as a charge levelled against the sport.
It is written by the highly regarded investigative journalist Pierre Ballester, who co-wrote L.A. Confidentiel in 2004 with David Walsh, the book that first opened the eyes of the sporting world to the drug activities of Lance Armstrong.
Ballester has many sound contacts in French anti-doping agencies. He has enlisted the support of several medical specialists and called witness from key figures such as Jacques Mombet, who was the France team’s doctor from 1975-95 and who spent 15 years prior to that at Agen.
“Amphetamines always existed in rugby,” Mombet tells Ballester. “In the Seventies, entire teams took them ... it wasn’t banned ... you found them everywhere. It was systematic.”
All Blacks scrotum victim suspected France on drugs
Gatland coy on future as WRU chief quits
Brown may still face Ireland in Dublin
Record-breaker North returns to face France
The focus of the edited highlights of the book centres on the second Test between France and New Zealand in Nantes on Nov 15, 1986. It has gone down as one of the most violent and ferocious matches ever played, with the All Blacks No 8 Wayne 'Buck’ Shelford requiring stitches in his scrotum after being raked by a boot as he was trapped in a ruck. He also lost four teeth and was knocked out in another incident.
France had lost the first Test 19-7 the week before in Toulouse and the French team, coached by the diminutive former scrum-half Jacques Fouroux, Le Petit General, had come in for a lot of criticism. The response was telling and brutal, with the French pack heeding the call of Daniel Dubroca, their hooker and captain, “for an uprising”. France recorded their biggest winning margin against the All Blacks, 16-3. Reports from the All Black camp spoke of their opponents as men possessed.
Mombet’s testimony explains how accurate that description was and why. “They [the French team] each had their little pill in front of their plates for the meal before the match,” Mombet is quoted as saying. “The All Blacks realised that their opponents, unrecognisable from the previous week, were loaded. The players were free to take them [the pills] or not.”
When pressed on specific players, such as icons of the time, Serge Blanco, Philippe Sella and Pierre Berbizier, Mombet stated that he saw no precise evidence of drug-taking with them. Sella has threatened to take legal action at even being mentioned.
“When I read the article, my arms fell to my side,” Sella told the l’Equipe journalist Richard Escot. “I found it grotesque. I have nothing to reproach myself for. I feel defamed.”
There is also reference in the book to the match between France and South Africa in 1997 in Paris when it is alleged that 10 prescriptions were presented by the South African camp an hour prior to kick-off covering the use of various medicinal aids such as Ventolin, an asthmatic medicine. South Africa won 52-10.
