http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569252/s/41e2750b/sc/38/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0C11310A4870CRugby0Eunion0E20A140Ereview0ESix0ENations0Ewas0Eutterly0Eabsorbing0Eand0EJacques0EBurger0Egave0Ea0Eperfect0Eperformance0Bhtml/story01.htm
Rugby union 2014 review: Six Nations was utterly absorbing and Jacques Burger gave a perfect performance
By Steve James
6:08PM GMT 30 Dec 2014
Comments
Let us deal with what really matters first. Rugby union lost some fine men in 2014, not least the incomparable Jackie Kyle, probably Ireland’s greatest player, who guided his country to their first Grand Slam in 1948. He may even have been the finest fly-half the game has seen.
Among others gone too are the legendarily hard New Zealand lock Frank Oliver, two excellent Welsh rugby administrators in Stuart Gallacher and Ray Williams, who also made their marks as player and coach respectively, and Scotland’s most influential rugby journalist, Norman Mair.
In addition the courageous battle being fought by the South African Joost van der Westhuizen against motor neurone disease, the terrible spinal injury suffered by Wales’s Owen Williams and the triumph of his compatriot Matthew Rees in returning to the game after overcoming cancer all lend us a perspective that was too easily lost amid the petty squabbles over a new European competition and a ‘Rugby Services Agreement’ in Wales.
In this light, those spectators in Cardiff who booed Wales’s Rhys Priestland and at Twickenham who shouted homophobic abuse at referee Nigel Owens might just wish to reflect upon their behaviour. So, too, Toulon’s Delon Armitage and Martin Castrogiovanni after recent silly verbal outbursts.
But we should also record with sadness the retirements from the game of two greats in Jonny Wilkinson and Brian O’Driscoll. Both enriched the sport immeasurably. A couple of Wilkinson’s colleagues from the 2003 World Cup victory, Mike Tindall and Iain Balshaw, also departed, along with James Simpson-Daniel, so cruelly afflicted with injury, and Steve Borthwick, so often maligned but already clearly missed as a leader at Saracens.
Cricket review 2014: Death changed the game
Wilkinson suffers New Years mix-up
Athletics review: Pavey shows it's never too late
Wilkinson on brink of knighthood
We should also recall with horror the moment when, in a French Top 14 match, Guy Novès, the Toulouse director of rugby, implored his centre Florian Fritz to return to the field swiftly when he was obviously concussed and in no fit state to resume.
Concussions in rugby are inevitable, and whilst awareness and education have increased hugely, there is the lingering feeling that too many risks are still taken. Second impacts can be fatal. That should be sufficient deterrent.
You would also hope that there is that deterrent for those seeking to gain advantage from the use of performance-enhancing drugs, a subject that has raised its ugly head recently. Yes, there have been a number of failed tests, but mostly at lower levels.
Of the 15 players banned recently in England and Wales, only one – Harry Allen of Harlequins – was at a top-level club when banned (he has subsequently left), and that was for recreational drug use. But rugby must not be complacent.
Some other hopes for 2015 might include clarification of the use of the television match officials (I have long advocated cricket-type referrals), further improvement of the scrummage (it is better, but still too frustrating), less draconian refereeing of incidents in the air (players with arms in the air and eyes on the ball should not even be penalised) and that next season we do not see a repeat of teams such as London Welsh and Treviso being total embarrassments in the Aviva Premiership and European Rugby Champions Cup.
But what of the overall standard of rugby in 2014? It was pretty good. The Premiership, ultimately providing Northampton with their first title, was the best I have seen, and its high standards, in the upper echelons of the league at least, were certainly maintained in the early stages of this season.
The last Heineken Cup confirmed Toulon’s power on and off the field with their second successive title, but it also offered one of the great performances by an English side when Saracens smashed Clermont Auvergne 46-6 in the semi-final at Twickenham. For poor old Jacques Burger it now looks as if a wrecked body is finally slowing, but in old age he can undoubtedly reflect on that game with rare fondness. As a personal journalistic first I gave him 10/10. He deserved 11/10.
As ever, the Six Nations was utterly absorbing, with Ireland claiming the title on points difference, but England looking marginally the better side and winning the match between the two – a titanic one, too – at Twickenham.
Ireland have kicked on since then, having beaten South Africa and Australia during the autumn. It would have been fascinating to see them play New Zealand, not least because they might have had to widen the horizons of a limited game that worked against the other two. With England and France at home, they look likely to retain their Six Nations title.
Meanwhile England have plateaued, with their centre partnership still a riddle and question marks lingering over the half-backs, despite the promise shown by George Ford at fly-half.
Their year is probably best summed up by full-back Mike Brown, who spent the end of last season steadily extending his personal trophy cabinet. Now you suspect the Harlequins man is gazing at it longingly and wondering whether things can ever be quite as good again.
Overall England performed poorly last autumn, conspicuously failing to suggest that they can really trouble New Zealand or South Africa, and were rescued at the death in victory against Australia by the magnificence of their forwards’ set‑piece work.
But that in itself engenders hope. With players coming back from injury they could easily field two different packs that could cope on the world stage. They will always be in games, especially those wrapped in the tension and constriction generated by a World Cup.
As it was, England’s loudest rugby shouts in 2014 came from their women, who, after thrice being runners-up, won the their World Cup in Paris, and the male Under-20s, who retained the International Rugby Board (as it was then, now World Rugby) Junior World Championship by beating South Africa in Auckland.
However, success in a home World Cup next year would, of course, scream rather more loudly than any of this. And home advantage does count for a great deal. I predicted a final between England and New Zealand before the autumn series, and I stand by that.
England can top Pool A, even with Australia and Wales in it, and could then face Scotland in the quarter‑finals, France or Ireland in the semis and then New Zealand (or South Africa) in the final.
Not that it will be an easy passage, of course. Wales had a torrid Six Nations but made strides in the autumn, with their big players, such as Jamie Roberts and Sam Warburton, finding their best form and the likes of Rhys Webb, Dan Biggar and Samson Lee all coming of age.
I suspect England might lose in the Six Nations opener in February, when the passion of 2013 will surely be replicated in Cardiff, but still win at Twickenham in the World Cup.
Thankfully, Scotland have improved under Vern Cotter after a woeful Six Nations. Richie Gray is rejuvenated at lock and the fly-half Finn Russell and centre Mark Bennett look highly promising.
New Zealand remain the benchmark, though, winning 12 from 14 Tests in 2014, finishing it as the world’s No 1 team for the seventh year in a row. Richie McCaw has now won 121 of his 137 Tests, and prevailed in 88 of his 100 Tests as captain. Enough said.
South Africa beat them in Johannesburg but looked jaded during their autumn tour, as did Australia, unsurprisingly after their off-field travails.
Argentina? To much acclaim they won their first Rugby Championship match and also beat Italy and France in the autumn, the latter the week after France had beaten Australia in a cracker that suggested the French had turned the corner after a fitful year. Typical France.
However, there will be nothing typical about 2015 as a rugby year. It promises to be utterly enthralling.
