http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569111/s/44ae1109/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Cireland0C114889640CIreland0Ecautious0Eabout0Etheir0Echances0Eof0Ewinning0Ethe0ERugby0EWorld0ECup0Ethis0Eyear0Bhtml/story01.htm
Ireland cautious about their chances of winning the Rugby World Cup this year
By Alasdair Reid
9:04PM GMT 22 Mar 2015
Comments
So much for one-dimensional Ireland, for they played a game of breathtaking variety. So much for their line-out being a weakness, for they scored four tries off that phase. So much for Paul O'Connell being past his best, for the 35-year-old captain was a towering figure throughout. So much for those who said that Ireland could never back up one title win with another.
Ireland are the champions of 2015, and deservedly so. Supporters of England and Wales might despair at Scotland's feeble efforts to stop them building a score, but O'Connell and his men won the game and the tournament in the grand style.
If they had been playing in shackles in their earlier games, they left them behind in the Murrayfield changing room. This was a performance of power and purpose by a group of players who know how big games are won.
That knowledge eludes Scotland for the moment. The Scots have the ingredients of a game, but no recipe to follow. Throughout the tournament, Scottish players and coaches had argued that they could sustain self-belief through a sequence of defeats, but that quality seemed to drain away from the moment O'Connell thundered over for Ireland's first try after just five minutes. With the possible exception of Stuart Hogg, the fullback, Scotland showed little defiance either.
So how good are Ireland? The best in Europe, clearly, a status affirmed by their world ranking as well as their Six Nations title. But the bigger question for Irish fans now is whether their team can kick on and win the World Cup. On that front, they still carry a few scars.
Eight years ago, Ireland were pipped to the 2007 Six Nations title - by France - by a points difference margin even narrower than the one they held over England on Saturday evening. They went to the World Cup later that year in confident mood, counted amongst the favourites. But they came back with their tails between their legs, knocked out in the pool stage of a tournament in which they came within a whisker of being beaten by Georgia.
Small wonder that they now proceed with caution. "We'd love to go there and do well," O'Connell said of this year's tournament in England. "One thing that has suited us in the last 18 months is that we haven't got too far ahead of ourselves. We have prepared for what is directly ahead of us, and that suits us."
If O'Connell's outlook represents Ireland's new maturity then the southern hemisphere giants ought to be afraid. Who is to say that Sean O'Brien is not a better open side than Richie McCaw right now? That Jonny Sexton is not a better fly-half than Dan Carter? Ireland played this game with a level of intensity that was quite beyond Scotland's reckoning, with a relentlessness that even the All Blacks would struggle to cope with.
Their loss to Wales in Cardiff seven days earlier highlighted issues of consistency. It also showed they are not in New Zealand's league in the business of turning encampment in the red zone into guaranteed points on the board. They also lack depth in key areas (the All Blacks won a World Cup without Carter - could Ireland win it without Sexton?). But in Joe Schmidt they have a smart and wily coach who will put the months ahead to good use.
In due time. Schmidt revealed on Saturday that he has more pressing business right now. On Tuesday, he and wife Kellie will fly abroad to seek treatment for their 11-year-old son Luke's epilepsy.
Schmidt said: "Winning this tournament is a massive boost for us but the reality for me is that I'm on dad duty. I've got a sick son and we're off overseas to see specialists to try to get some help with him.
"So the reality for me is a long way from rugby. I'll park the rugby for a little while. We'll see if we can get really lucky on both sides of what's important to us, and then we'll look towards the World Cup towards the end of April."
It is hard to imagine Scotland coach Vern Cotter approaching that tournament with anything other than dread right now. His team started the Six Nations in sprightly fashion, impressing against both France and Wales, but they have gone backwards at a rate of knots since.
They lost Richie Gray, their best forward, after the Wales game, while Alex Dunbar, the hugely impressive centre, has since picked up a serious knee injury that is likely to rule him out of the World Cup.
"We have to understand how games are built," Cotter said. "They are constructed from one line-out to another, from one phase to another. It goes for 80 minutes; that has to be understood and managed as a group.
"As soon as we lose a little bit of confidence we end up playing catch-up rugby. Catch-up rugby is not constructive rugby."
They could do worse than study what Ireland did here. In each of their tries - after O'Connell, O'Brien claimed two and Jared Payne another - they put the phases together brilliantly, knocking holes in Scotland's defence every time.
It was compelling stuff. It was the stuff that champions are made of.
