http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569111/s/448142de/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Csixnations0C114789690CWarren0EGatland0EI0Ewill0Enot0Ebeg0EAdam0EJones0Eto0Eplay0Efor0EWales0Eagainst0EItaly0Ein0Efinal0ESix0ENations0Eclash0Bhtml/story01.htm
Warren Gatland: I will not beg Adam Jones to play for Wales against Italy in final Six Nations clash
By Daniel Schofield
10:00PM GMT 17 Mar 2015
Comments
A stand-off was emerging between Warren Gatland and Adam Jones on Tuesday night as the Wales head coach pointedly said that he would not beg the tighthead prop to come out of international retirement.
In light of Samson Lee being ruled a major doubt for the World Cup, Jones, 34, has intimated that he would reconsider his decision to quit Wales duty providing he was approached by Gatland. The New Zealander, who on Tuesday rated Lee only 50-50 to make the World Cup after rupturing his Achilles tendon 12 minutes into Wales’s bruising 23-16 victory over Ireland on Saturday, overlooked Jones for his autumn international and Six Nations squads prompting him to retire in January.
Yet there was no air of rapprochement on Tuesday at the Vale of Glamorgan for Wales’s team announcement against Italy despite Lee’s injury. That leaves Aaron Jarvis, who has started one international in the past three years, and Scott Andrews, who is Jones’s back-up at Cardiff Blues, as the next cab on the rank for the No 3 shirt.
Gatland insists the ball is in Jones's court (Getty Images)
Gatland, though, placed the ball very much in Jones’s court. “If Adam Jones wasn’t retired from international rugby, then he may very well be in the squad now,” Gatland said. “But, as far as we are concerned, he has retired, so until he makes a different decision on that then, for us, we haven’t even discussed Adam Jones because he is not in contention.”
Lee will undergo an operation next week, which will cause him to miss at least six months with Wales’s opening fixture against Uruguay on Sept 20. “For everyone with that sort of injury, it can be two or three weeks either side,” Gatland said. “He might be lucky and rehabs and recovers well and gets another two or three weeks or he might be slow and he misses out. I think he is a 50-50 chance at this stage.”
By his own admission, Jones’s effectiveness has been curtailed by the new scrummaging engagement sequence but he still has one of the wisest heads in international rugby. Asked whether Lee’s injury would prompt him to pick up the phone to Jones, Gatland replied: “Not at this stage. I was surprised at the timing of his announcement. He was not out of our thoughts: we had played a little bit of phone tag leaving messages and going backwards and forwards.

“If he has changed his mind and wants to get on the phone and say ‘I made a rash decision, retired too early and want to be part of the World Cup squad’, that is a different conversation. At the moment I will not be going on bended knees ringing him saying please come back we really desperately need you.”
The who-blinks-first contest seems set to be decided in the coming weeks; Gatland’s short-term priority is to secure a handsome enough victory against Italy to provide Wales with a chance of winning the Six Nations Championship.
• Six reasons why Wales will win the Six Nations • Six reasons why Ireland will win the Six Nations • Six reasons why England will win the Six Nations
In addition to Jarvis coming in for Lee, Rob Evans makes his first start at loosehead prop in place of Gethin Jenkins, who also picked up a hamstring injury in the victory against Ireland, which sets up a final round in which four teams could be crowned Champions. Wales are level with England and Ireland but must overcome a points differential of 25.
To that end, livewire scrum-half Gareth Davies replaces Mike Phillips on the bench with Rhys Webb, the first-choice No 9, on Tuesday becoming the eighth Wales international to sign a dual contract between the Welsh Rugby Union and the Ospreys. Gatland, though, resisted the temptation to promote Scott Williams, a try-scorer against Ireland, into the midfield.
Wales expect their scrum to come under pressure against Italy (AP)
“The worst thing for us would be to try and score 40 or 50 points against Italy, end up playing too much rugby early on and lose the game and then find that Scotland and France win and we have potentially cost ourselves a championship,” Gatland said. “We have got to be smart about the way we approach the game.”
The victory against Ireland has only heightened regrets over their performance in the opening-round defeat by England. Ireland, meanwhile, faced Italy first up, the seventh time they had done so in the past 14 Six Nations, which Gatland feels provides an unfair advantage.
“Who is doing it? The last 15 years have been very tough on England and Wales in terms of the draw we have both received. Who is making that draw? You look at one team who has had a pretty easy run in the last 10 or 15 years and for the next two or three years. Whether that is the broadcasters having an influence I don’t know.
“It is a tough tournament to win: win your first game and you get a bit of momentum and put yourself in contention. I don’t know if there should be a rota. I have just looked at the last 10 or 15 years and seen who has played who first in the competition. Some teams have obviously had easier starts on a regular basis.”
