http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569111/s/44a1c30d/sc/35/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Cengland0C114868520CTop0Eplayers0Edemand0Ethree0Emonth0Eclose0Eseason0Bhtml/story01.htm
Top players demand three-month close season
By Daniel Schofield
8:22PM GMT 20 Mar 2015
Comments
Alex Corbisiero is leading the call from the International Rugby Players’ Association to introduce a mandatory three-month rest period, which would lead to significant disruption of the rugby calendar.
The England prop’s demand reflects a growing concern over player welfare. Most internationals receive only a month off between the end of the summer tour and start of pre-season with their clubs. In World Cup years, those demands only increase. Many England players will be lucky to receive more than two weeks off after the Premiership play-offs conclude in May before they are called into World Cup training camps.
After a conference this week, the IRPA, which represents the English, Welsh, Irish and Italian player unions, issued a statement calling for “a review of the existing competition schedules and season structure to ensure that players can rest, recover and prepare appropriately during a meaningful competition off season”. It added that IRPA members “support a mandatory competition off season period of 12-14 weeks for all players and the introduction of a clear distinction between club and country assembly periods during international windows”.
Under the Rugby Football Union’s elite player agreement with Premiership clubs, no England player should play more than 32 matches a season but that does not include training, which now accounts for a third of all injuries according to the RFU’s latest audit. Corbisiero argues that action is needed to prevent burnout.
“From a player’s perspective, I think it’s essential to agree a mandatory rest period during the off season to allow our bodies to recover from what is an increasingly physical sport. Player welfare is of paramount importance and the introduction of a clearly defined season and off-season structure must be a positive step for all involved”.
Meanwhile, Edward Griffiths will stand down as Saracens chief executive at the end of the season. The Englishman pioneered the club’s move to a permanent home in Allianz Park as well as taking games to Wembley where they hope to set an attendance record for a rugby game staged in England against Harlequins next week.
