http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569111/s/446002a5/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Csixnations0C1147150A90CWales0Ev0EIreland0ERhys0EWebb0Eat0Ethe0Eheart0Eof0EWelsh0Eresurgence0Eas0ESix0ENations0Eprize0Eremains0Ein0Esight0Bhtml/story01.htm
Wales v Ireland: Rhys Webb at the heart of Welsh resurgence as Six Nations prize remains in sight
By James Corrigan
10:00PM GMT 13 Mar 2015
Comments
• Wales v Ireland - which team is stronger? • Wales v Ireland: the tetchy Celtic rivalry • Warren Gatland 'has brain capacity of tub of Flora'
In terms of being an established double act, Rhys Webb and Dan Biggar could still be described as trawling the northern circuit when compared to Ireland's Conor Murray and Jonathan Sexton. Yet that does not mean the young Welsh half-backs will not be the ones laughing come this evening.
Certainly they will not fail because of a lack of confidence; Webb in particular. While acknowledging the excellence of the Irish duo, the Ospreys scrum-half is hardly likely to be overawed. With a statement which will not be appreciated in the Stuart Lancaster household, he highlighted the self-belief he will carry into the Millennium Stadium.
“It was an outstanding kicking performance by Murray and Sexton in Dublin [a fortnight ago], but I don’t know if England did much analysis on them – they didn’t seem to put much pressure on nine and 10 whatsoever,” Webb said.

“Murray and Sexton are the key players for them, and we need to put as much pressure on them as possible and not give them the easy way out. There can be no margin for error. But the boys are positive. We’ve stepped it up from the England game.”
That opening defeat hurt Wales and nobody in the camp was more critical of the collective display than Webb. “A bit lazy” was his assessment and although the Welsh Rugby Union PR department believed his comments to be out of context there was no doubting his despondency. It had all began so brightly, especially for Webb, when the Osprey went over in the eighth minute. But then the rot set in and it has taken a valiant rebuild to put them back in the frame for the championship.
“To win the title would be a massive achievement after that first-day disappointment,” Webb said. “We know we have to beat Ireland to remain in contention and they are coming down for here the Six Nations Grand Slam. But I do think we have grown from the England game.”
Dan Biggar has turned a fragile position into a secure one (GETTY IMAGES)
Webb and Biggar have been at the heart of the resurgence. Yet another Webb try in Scotland – making his tally an impressive four out of 12 international starts – was followed by victory in Paris, where an archetypal Webb snipe set up Biggar’s match-winning try in the corner.
Dan Lydiate played a wonderful few hands in that move, but the influence of the half-backs only added to the partnership’s stature. Having both been on the Liberty Stadium books for eight years, the pair are obviously close and unlike certain Welsh pairings over the decades, their chemistry also works off the pitch.
“We are very good mates off the field, know each other inside out,” Webb said. “We always keep in touch away from rugby, constantly on the phone chatting. We always room together at the Vale of Glamorgan, talking about games and stuff. The only problem is, he stays up a bit later than me, as I’m an early bird. But it is nice to have a good mate outside you.”

They have both waited patiently and worked diligently, with Biggar cementing his position before his hombre. Webb has secured the jersey made legend by Gareth Edwards only in the past 12 months, gaining the nod over Mike Phillips after last year’s humiliating reversal in Dublin. After a successful personal autumn campaign, which featured tries against Australia and New Zealand, Webb finally feels like he has arrived.
“Before, I was coming in and out of the team and not really building momentum,” he said. “It has been good to get the starts in the autumn, and carry on in the Six Nations. I feel full of confidence and really enjoying my time.
“Growing up, I used to look up to Joost van der Westhuizen and Justin Marshall and to be in the same Ospreys squad as Marshall when I was still learning really helped me. Rob Howley [the Wales skills coach] as well. I was a ball-boy at Bridgend when he played for the club. But I do not really worry about any other scrum-halves now. It’s all about being the best I can.”
Wales will surely need Webb at his best today. A lot rests on his still relatively inexperienced shoulders, although to talk to Webb one would never guess.
“I don’t get nervous before a match,” he said. “I think of it is as just another game for my local club. That relaxes me and makes me play with a smile on my face. You may as well enjoy it.”
