http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569111/s/446002a7/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Csixnations0C114717370CSix0ENations0E20A150EEngland0Efull0Eback0EMike0EBrown0Eproud0Eto0Ehave0Eset0Eexample0Eon0Econcussion0Bhtml/story01.htm
Six Nations 2015: England full-back Mike Brown proud to have set example on concussion
By Gavin Mairs, Rugby News Correspondent
10:00PM GMT 13 Mar 2015
Comments
Mike Brown, the England full-back, has described his decision to withdraw from the RBS Six Nations match against Ireland in Dublin because of recurring concussion symptoms as “one of the worst things” he has gone through in his life.
Brown, who returns to the side to face Scotland at Twickenham on Saturday, admits that he would most likely have attempted to hide his symptoms before the recent increase in awareness of the dangers of concussion, such is his “desperate” desire to represent his country.
Brown was knocked out after a brutal collision with Andrea Masi after just 12 minutes of England’s 47-17 victory over Italy. He twice failed the return-to-play protocol during the two-week preparations for the trip to Dublin that culminated in a 19-9 defeat for Stuart Lancaster’s side.

“Pulling out [of the Ireland game] is one of the worst things I’ve ever had to go through in my whole life,” said Brown, who will win his 36th cap on Saturday, having replaced Alex Goode in one of two changes to the starting XV to face Scotland. As a sportsman everything you work towards is pulling on your country’s jersey and representing everyone in the country.
“If it wasn’t for the awareness courses we’ve been on through the Rugby Players’ Association and the Rugby Football Union, I probably wouldn’t have done it [withdraw] and wouldn’t have done myself justice, would have put myself in danger and it wouldn’t have been good.
“So it’s great that we’re all aware of it now, that concussion has been talked about the way it has been because it’s a big issue, and it’s great that people can look at the example of myself, the England team, and the coaching team, and that we’ve shown the examples we have.”
Brown lies unconscious on the pitch (GETTY IMAGES)
Asked if he would have previously hidden the symptoms – he pulled out after experiencing headaches in the middle of the second return-to-play protocol – Brown said: “I think so. If I wasn’t so aware of the implications and the dangers, yeah I probably would have.
“The way I am – stubborn, desperate to play rugby, desperate to play for my country, I probably would have. But we’re all aware of it now and the example has been set by the England medical team and the coaching staff here for everyone else to see.
• England could be the most foolish side in the Six Nations • Austin Healey: How to stop rugby being boring • Scotland won't have a fear factor at Twickenham
“I tried it quite early on and failed that. And then got about halfway through and still didn’t feel right, so unfortunately had to pull myself out.
“[It was] massively frustrating to have to go through that, and having to sit out a game of such massive importance. But everyone knows that now with the courses that we’ve been through the dangers and the risks.
“And if I can do it – missing out on representing my country in such a big game – there’s no reason anyone else can’t do it.”
Brown admits to having previously trained with headaches, but did not attempt to convince himself to ignore the danger signs this time.
“I went down to see the doctor about 8.30 in the morning – I usually get up about 7.30-8,” he added.
“You know, I’ve trained through headaches before – not from concussion, but through being a bit dehydrated – so I could definitely have trained on and seen how it went. But it wouldn’t have been good preparation for the team if I’d turned up that late. It wouldn’t have been good for me having that in the back of my mind. And obviously there’s the serious implications of the dangers and the risks involved.”
Brown and his fiancee - Eliza Woodcock
Brown instead watched England’s defeat on television in his flat alongside his fiancée, Eliza Woodcock, daughter of the former Arsenal and England footballer Tony. It was an experience he described as more nerve-racking than playing.
The 29-year-old, who has been given the nickname of 'Mr Angry’ by his team-mates for his no-nonsense attitude, admits he found his temper soaring as England’s hopes of winning a Grand Slam were ruined.
“I was fuming. I wasn’t happy at all,” Brown said. “Unfortunately, my fiancée had to go through it with me, poor lady. It wasn’t something I want to be doing too regularly, sat in my lounge, on the edge of my sofa, screaming at the TV. I think I am more nervous watching it than I usually am playing. I had to have a quiet moment to myself at half-time. It wasn’t a good day. I had to take myself off for a few moments!”
Brown praised England’s medical staff for keeping Eliza informed of his injury within a couple of minutes of his collision with Masi. Four weeks on and the Harlequins full-back insists he will not think twice about going up for a high ball today.
“The way I play, I can’t afford to do that because it would take so much away from my game,” Brown added. “I think I’m 100 per cent committed every time I’m going for a ball. We’ll see when I get out there.”
For the RFU’s new, online concussion education course
