http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569111/s/444afdc5/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Csixnations0C114657610CWales0Ev0EIreland0ESix0ENations0E20A150EJamie0ERoberts0Eout0Eto0Esilence0EJonathan0ESexton0Bhtml/story01.htm
Wales v Ireland, Six Nations 2015: Jamie Roberts out to silence Jonathan Sexton
By Steve James
10:00PM GMT 11 Mar 2015
Comments
Jamie Roberts is laughing at the memory. He is recalling the moment he realised just how angry Jonathan Sexton can be on a rugby field.
“It was the first time I played with him, I remember it well,” Roberts says. “It was on the British and Irish Lions tour against the Waratahs and he was shouting his head off at me. It took me by surprise a bit. Yeah, he is an angry man, but he barks orders because he knows what he wants from his team. He is a guy who demands high standards and there is nothing wrong with that.”
Roberts and Sexton are currently team-mates at Racing Metro in Paris, even if not for long because the Ireland fly half Sexton will return to Leinster at the end of the season and the Wales centre Roberts looks likely to move too, even if he gave a very diplomatic -“I’d rather not comment on my future”- when asked this week.
“We are good mates now in Paris,” says Roberts. “I do quite a lot of my training out in Paris with him. All of us who speak English are close mates!”
Jamie Roberts was at his bruising best against France in Paris (AP)
But now on Saturday they will be rivals in an eagerly anticipated RBS Six Nations match between Wales and Ireland in Cardiff. “I won’t speak to him this week!” chuckles Roberts. “But it will be great to play against him. He is a very, very good player. He has got Ronan O’Gara as his mentor in Paris who is passing on a lot of information to him and helping him develop into a wonderful player. He is a clever player, and a guy we need to stay a few seconds ahead of on Saturday.”
Sexton, of course, is central to Ireland’s strict yet unerringly accurate tactical game.
“We are playing a formidable side, who have a way of playing the game,” says Roberts. “Their attacking kicking game, certainly from the half backs, is very evident. They are happy to put bombs up in our 22 if they have to. I have played with Jonny in Paris and I have got a feel for what he wants out of his team. He is the commander- in-chief of their team.”
With Ireland still on course for a Grand Slam and Wales aiming to throw the championship wide open, it promises to be some match.
Jonathan Sexton will be one of Ireland's key men on Saturday (GETTY IMAGES)
“I was thinking about it driving into training this week and it is one of those games that will stick long in the memory whether it is a win or a loss,” says Roberts. “It is one of those big games that do not come around too often in your career. It is against a team that are the best team in Europe at the moment and against a team who are playing very well.”
Can Wales rise to the occasion? “It is why we play the game,” he says. “It’s why we do what we do. You play the game to wear that jersey for Wales and play in the biggest games of all. This is a huge match. If we win we stay in the hunt for the championship and if we lose, we are out of it. Since losing that first game against England every game has been a cup final for us. We’ve improved game on game, I think. We haven’t won pretty in either Murrayfield or Paris – it is very difficult to win pretty in Paris against that team- but we got the job done.”
Wales have, though, lost to Ireland in the last two years, being hammered 26-3 in Dublin last year and have only won twice in Cardiff in 14 attempts against Ireland. Against them Roberts has lost four of his seven matches.

“On a personal note there have been more lows than highs against them,” he says. “That is something I am quite keen to rectify. I remember the quarter final of the World Cup and 2012 as very good memories but I’ll never forget 2009 watching Ireland win the Grand Slam in our stadium. That is one of those moments in your career that motivates you I suppose. It’s something you never want to happen again. And certainly the last two years, playing at home in 2013 we got blown off the field in the first half and last year it wasn’t pretty, it was a poor loss out there.”
Open or tight? How will this game unfold? “It is who blinks first but it is also who dares wins as well,” admits Roberts. “It is a bit of a game of chess these big games. You see that in the opening exchanges, with both teams trying to work each other out and no doubt it will be like that again on Saturday. We have to be ready to go out and play and take the game to them. They are very clever defensively. They pick and choose their rucks.
We have got to be very clever in that respect. It is certainly a thinking man’s game this weekend.”
With both Roberts and Sexton thinking how nice it would be to get one over on a mate.

