http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569111/s/4444d8a4/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cpremiership0C114635620CEnglish0EPremiership0Ewill0Ebe0Eleft0Ebehind0EFrances0ETop0E140Eif0Esalary0Ecap0Eretained0Einsists0Enew0Eglobal0Erugby0Eagency0Bhtml/story01.htm
English Premiership will be left behind France's Top 14 if salary cap retained, insists new global rugby agency
By Gavin Mairs, Rugby News Correspondent
9:53AM GMT 11 Mar 2015
Comments
A newly-created global rugby agency representing some of the biggest names in world rugby has warned that the Aviva Premiership is in danger of being “left behind” if the current salary cap is retained.
The Daily Telegraph can reveal that Esportif International will today confirm a merger with Big Red Management, with the new company representing more international players in the current Six Nations squads than any other agency.
Among Esportif’s new client list will include England players James Haskell, Dave Attwood, Jack Nowell, Billy Twelvetrees, Danny Care, Henry Slade and Ben Foden; Alun Wyn Jones, Jonathan Davies and Jamie Roberts from Wales; Tommy Bowe, Rory Best and Devin Toner from Ireland and Dave Denton and Tim Visser from the Scotland squad.
Southern hemisphere clients of the company, whose chairman is Peter Kenyon, the former chief executive of Manchester United and Chelsea, include Jerome Kaino, Aaron Cruden, Malakai Fekitoa, Matt Giteau and John Afoa.
Duncan Sandlant, managing director of Esportif, said the merger reflected the increasing globalisation of the professional game.
Tom Croft injured in Leicester win at Newcastle
Barritt injury in Saracens win threatens England recall
England do not have to play sexy rugby to win
Gloucester 33 Northampton 33: Saints break Gloucester hearts
But he warned that it would become increasingly difficult for England’s top clubs to compete with the French, Japanese and Celtic leagues if the current salary restrictions remained in place although the increase on the salary cap and change in marque player ruling had helped decrease the gap.
The salary cap is due to rise to £5.5 million next season with the allowance of two marquee players, but it is dwarfed by the £8.6million (excluding players who earn less than £43,000) which clubs can spend in France’s Top 14 competition.
Saracens raised the issue of scrapping the cap at the clubs’ owners and shareholders meeting last month.
“The game is becoming significantly more global and English clubs, in the last 12 months particularly, are now looking at world class players from New Zealand, South Africa, Australia and Europe which is great for the Aviva Premiership” said Sandlant.
“With TV rights going the way they are the English league will want to attract the best players and coaches in the world so there is a real concern that the bottom clubs are having a detrimental effect on the bigger clubs and where they want to take the league.
"The second marquee ruling has been utilised by a few English teams for next season but a number of clubs cannot afford a marquee player let alone two.”
Any changes to the salary cap would require a 75 per cent majority of Premiership Rugby shareholders, who are currently in advanced discussions about expanding the top flight to 14 clubs and scrapping relegation from 2016.
Proponents of the cap argue it ensures clubs’ financial viability, controls inflationary pressures on costs and provides a level playing field for clubs, the majority of whom lose money every season. The original salary cap was set at £1.2 m in 1999, and has risen incrementally since then to £4.26 million last season.
But there are also concerns that England’s top players will become targets for overseas clubs after the World Cup in September and October.
The financial strength of the Top 14 was underscored in December with the announcement that All Black fly-half Dan Carter had signed a record £1.3 million-a-season three-year deal with Racing Metro.
Mark Spoors, the chief executive of Big Red who are merging with Esportif International, said that while the salary cap was protecting the lower half of the league, it was restricting the top half from competing against the top teams in Europe.
“The likes of Leinster, Toulon and Racing Metro have budgets almost twice as big as other Premiership clubs competing in the European Champions’ Cup so they are not competing on anywhere near a level playing field,” said Spoors. “The league could be left behind.
“The decision of a player is, on the whole, not solely a financial one when it comes to deciding on a club. The club needs to match the ambition of the player, it must have a decent infrastructure, top-quality coaching, be financially secure, good training facilities, with leading strength and conditioning and medical departments.
“A number of players often speak to James Haskell who was criticised in some camps for travelling the world, playing in top leagues in Japan, France as well as Super 15, but look at him now. He is captain of one of the top clubs (Wasps) in Britain and back in the England squad. He was the anomaly but soon could be the norm.”
