http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569111/s/4435e909/sc/20/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Csixnations0C11460A3490CSix0ENations0E20A150EStuart0ELancaster0Esays0EEngland0Ecan0Elearn0Elessons0Efrom0ECricket0EWorld0ECup0Ehumiliation0Bhtml/story01.htm
Six Nations 2015: Stuart Lancaster says England can learn lessons from Cricket World Cup humiliation
By Mick Cleary
10:00PM GMT 09 Mar 2015
Comments
Stuart Lancaster says that the humiliation suffered by England’s cricketers in Australia will strengthen his own desire to ensure that the rugby team are in the best possible shape for the challenge of the Rugby World Cup in September.
Lancaster has at least been boosted ahead of the Calcutta Cup at Twickenham on Saturday, a match that England must win if they are to have any chance of winning the Six Nations title, by the news that Luther Burrell is fit to train after missing last week’s session with a calf injury.
The Northampton centre’s availability is all the more important following the news that Brad Barritt, of Saracens, will miss the rest of the championship after picking up an ankle strain in Sunday’s Aviva Premiership match against Wasps . Exeter’s versatile, in-form Henry Slade has been added to the training squad as cover for Barritt.
Lancaster is well aware of the pressure on his team after their loss in Dublin, and that the scrutiny will only escalate as the World Cup gets nearer. The sobering experiences of the national cricket and football teams at not making the knockout stages in their World Cups will act as a prompt to Lancaster’ squad.
Luther Burrell is fit to face Scotland after recovering from a calf injury (GETTY IMAGES)
“Any national coach can empathise with another coach from their country who has gone through a difficult World Cup campaign but it does reinforce to me the need for us to be as best prepared as we can be for our big challenge in six months’ time,” Lancaster said as England gathered at their Pennyhill Park base yesterday.
“With the tournament being in our own country, the pressure and ­expectation on the team are going to be huge. We have massive games ahead of us on Saturday and the ­following weekend [against France], but you can’t help thinking ahead to what September is going to look and feel like.”
There is little doubt that a player such as Slade, 21, who has been the outstanding player in the Premiership over the past month, will feature in Lancaster’s World Cup selection plans, with a 45-man squad going into camp on June 21.
Unless Burrell suffers a reaction to his calf strain, Slade will be understudy to Billy Twelvetrees in the coming days, although he has a gilt-edged chance to show what he has to offer among his more-established peers. Slade, who played for the Saxons against Ireland Wolfhounds in January, is equally adept at fly-half and outside centre.
Brad Barritt, of Saracens, will miss the rest of the championship (GETTY IMAGES)
“The more I see of him, the more I think Henry has got fantastic potential,” Lancaster said. “You are going to have to generate training time for him before you throw him into an international game.”
Lancaster has indicated that he will stick largely by those who were on duty in Dublin. Mike Brown will return at full-back after coming through all the necessary protocols following a head injury with Alex Goode likely to return to the ranks.
Courtney Lawes is expected to return to the second row after his second full club match following 10 weeks on the sidelines. Tom Wood, his Saints team-mate, is also right back in consideration as Tom Croft, the Leicester back-row forward, has been ruled out with a dislocated shoulder. Geoff Parling, the Leicester lock, is also pushing hard, although the bench is his most likely destination.“We won’t make too many changes,” Lancaster said.
England's cricketers were humiliated in Australia in their defeat to Bangladesh (GETTY IMAGES)
The head coach also had to respond to a charge from Stuart Hogg, the Scotland full-back, that England did not “respect” them and thought only of themselves. “Given that I played for them [Scotland Under-19s], I obviously have the utmost regard for them. I can’t control what other people say, but from what I have seen of what [head coach] Vern Cotter has done for Scotland, he has been excellent. And, for me, Glasgow’s win over Bath was one of the performances of the season. I have plenty of respect for Scotland.”
Rob Webber, the Bath hooker, has also been summoned to training as cover for Tom Youngs. Henry Thomas, the Bath prop, has a shoulder problem but Newcastle’s Kieran Brookes is fit again. Sam Burgess has been invited in for two days’ training.

