http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/571234/s/409239b4/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cspain0C112368110CSpain0Ev0EGermany0EVicente0Edel0EBosque0Etells0Edeposed0Eworld0Echampions0Eto0Eput0Eon0Ea0Eshow0Eagainst0Etheir0Esuccessors0Bhtml/story01.htm
Spain v Germany: Vicente del Bosque tells deposed world champions to "put on a show" against their successors
By Telegraph Sport
3:16PM GMT 17 Nov 2014
Comments
Spain manager Vicente del Bosque has demanded his players put on a show as his rejuvenated side prepare to welcome Germany, the team that succeeded them as world champions, in Vigo on Tuesday.
"When you get this kind of match there's almost no difference whether the game is an official one or like in this case a friendly," said Del Bosque. "We want to play well, to put on a show."
Spain are slowly beginning to expunge their dismal Brazil World Cup campaign from their systems. They were eliminated at the group stage and, despite a slow start to their European Championships qualifying group, are now finding their form. They defeated Belarus 3-0 on Saturday.
Del Bosque's words were echoed by his goalkeeper, Iker Casillas, who said the teams needed to live up to their reputations.
"The last two World Cup winners are going head-to-head so you really can't get a more attractive game than that," explained the Real Madrid player.
Old Trafford ready for Ronaldo v Messi, part II
Lindegaard poised to play against Arsenal
Chelsea confident over Fabregas injury
Stoch and Kucka strike to stun Spain
Spain romped to the 2010 World Cup in South Africa but fell to a dramatic first-round elimination at the 2014 edition in Brazil, won so impressively by Germany.
Del Bosque has rejuvenated his side, the reigning European champions, with players such as Real Madrid midfielder Isco, Juventus striker Alvaro Moratta or winger Jose Callejon.
"Against the Germans, we'll be giving a run out to everyone we can," said Del Bosque.
Even so, Germany coach Joachim Loew looked to be taking the game less seriously than Del Bosque.
"We're delighted to be taking on a team of such a high technical level. It's the perfect test for us," Loew said. "But if we lose I won't consider it a defeat that would compromise our chances for next year (of winning Euro 2016). It's not so important."
The World Cup-winning coach also suggested he would give a run out to fringe strikers Kevin Volland of Hoffenheim and Stuttgart's Antonio Ruediger.
Loew has recently complained that Germany is suffering a post World Cup hangover, and that a fresh start is needed in the New Year.
"After this match, we need a good break and a long holiday so everyone can recharge our batteries," he said.
