http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/648508/s/416b1456/sc/17/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Csports0Epersonality0Eof0Ethe0Eyear0C11292690A0CSports0EPersonality0Eof0Ethe0EYear0EHow0ERory0EMcIlroy0Egrew0Efrom0Echeeky0Eschoolboy0Eto0Efavourite0Eto0Ewin0Eaward0Bhtml/story01.htm
Sports Personality of the Year: How Rory McIlroy grew from cheeky schoolboy to favourite to win award
By Tom Cary, Northern Ireland
10:00AM GMT 14 Dec 2014
Comments
It is only a mile or two from Church View, Holywood to Seafront Road in Cultra, an upmarket enclave on the shores of Belfast Lough. But in terms of staging posts in the life of Rory McIlroy, the distance between them is vast.
The world’s No 1 golfer, and the odds-on favourite for Sunday’s BBC Sports Personality of the Year gong, has come a long way from the modest two-up, two-down terraced house he first lived in as a small boy.
His most recent acquisition, a pied à terre for when he is actually in Northern Ireland, is a £2 million home right next to the Royal North of Ireland Yacht Club.
It is fair to say the purchase – actually five apartments at £400,000 each, which he is converting back into a single dwelling – has raised a few eyebrows in these parts.
Some have wondered out loud why he needs something so large when he is so rarely around. But no one is overly critical. McIlroy, as synonymous with Holywood as the Samson and Goliath cranes are with nearby Belfast docks, can do little wrong in local eyes. He is the North Down boy made good; the prodigal son.
McIlroy can drive golf into new era
McIlroy v Hamilton: head-to-head
Sports Personality of the Year 2014 odds
SPOTY 2014: Who should win?
PRIMARY COLOURS
“Now, can anyone tell me who painted this?” asks Geraldine Teer, the headmistress at St Patrick’s, a Catholic primary school numbering around 270 children on Church View, a stone’s throw from McIlroy’s boyhood home. Four hands shoot up. They are well aware of why this stranger from England has turned up in their midst. “Was it Rory?” they ask. “That’s right,” replies Mrs Teer. “He did it when he was about your age, 10.”
The children, all budding golfers, troop outside to have their picture taken with the painting, a collaborative reworking of Claude Monet’s London Fog which McIlroy did with three of his classmates in 1999 and which hangs proudly in Mrs Teer’s office.
Mrs Teer has something else she wants to show me. It is an old photo of McIlroy’s first Holy Communion back in June 1996. There he is at the back of the group, instantly recognisable, looking straight at the camera with a cheeky expression on his face, tongue sticking out while around him the other children adopt more solemn expressions. Mrs Teer laughs.
“I hadn’t arrived yet when Rory was a pupil here,” she says. “But by all accounts he was a cheeky wee boy. We’re all very proud of the fact that he attended this school. It would be great to get him back here one day to speak to the children, if he has time.”
It is a cold December’s day, and the wind is whipping over the lough, where a little over 100 years ago the Titanic slowly steamed past on her way out of Belfast. McIlroy’s base may be in sunny Florida these days but this is still the place he calls “home”.
His connection to the area runs deep. McIlroy’s grandfather, Jimmy – who was the man who first began the family love affair with golf, passing the bug down to Rory’s father Gerry and uncles Colm and Brian – worked the cranes in Belfast docks.
“I love flying into Belfast City airport,” McIlroy said in a recent interview. “Normally you are coming over Belfast Lough, you look left and you see Helen’s Bay, Cultra, Holywood; where I grew up, basically. I don’t ever get a sense of that flying in anywhere else but I get it going into that airport. It’s something that is very important to me.”
The feeling is clearly mutual. From the sign that greets visitors declaring “Welcome to Holywood – home of Rory McIlroy”, to the themed bathroom in the B&B in which I am staying, which has one of Rory’s old golf clubs for a handrail in the shower, there is no mistaking the pride they feel for one of their own out here.
McIlroy may not be such a regular visitor these days – two years ago he bought a $10.9 million (£7 million) six-bedroom mansion in Palm Beach Gardens, just a few short par-fives from Tiger Woods’s home – but they are adamant that he has not forgotten his roots; not added an extra ‘l’ to Holywood.
“It’s funny because if anyone else says anything nasty about Rory, we get very defensive,” says Mark McCrory, owner of The Dirty Duck, a gastropub that overlooks the lough and has carved out a reputation for being ‘the place Rory goes’ when he is in town. “Amongst ourselves, though, we are quite judgmental; ‘I hope he’s not getting up himself’. ‘I hope he doesn’t forget where he came from’. We don’t want him becoming conceited.”
McCrory adds that he is confident that will not happen. “Everything I have ever seen of Rory tells me he is a really good guy; really grounded. I have known him since he was 13 or 14. He is still the same old Rory. There are more demands on his time now but he always tries to help out if he can.”
THE 'BIG SWING'
The only child of Gerry and Rosie McIlroy, Catholics in a largely protestant neighbourhood, McIlroy was born on May 4, 1989, practically with a golf club in his hand. Gerry clearly pushed him, but he did not have to push too hard; the young McIlroy was obsessed from an early age. Punishment involved taking his clubs away from him.
There is a famous video on YouTube of a three-year-old McIlroy demonstrating, after a little prompting, his “big swing”, which he executes with perfect follow-through.
Before long he was accompanying his father, a scratch golfer himself, to Holywood Golf Club, where Gerry worked behind the bar. “Rory would be in all the time, beating a plastic ball around here – members would be complaining,” smiles Paul Gray, now the club’s general manager but back then an aspiring pro and sometime caddie for Gerry.
“But we run a very relaxed environment. If Rory had been at one of the smarter clubs, Portrush or Royal County Down, they might not have enjoyed him whacking plastic golf balls around the clubhouse so much.
“Then he got a wee set of clubs. I tell you, when he was about seven, if you had seen him out there, just pitching or hitting a shot ... he had a proper little game at seven years old.”
So good, in fact, that the club – which now has its very own shrine dedicated to McIlroy, who keeps some of his trophies here – changed its rules to accommodate him, revising its minimum age for members from 12 down to eight.
It was a decision which was to alter the course of golfing history. Under the tutelage of club pro Michael Bannon – still McIlroy’s coach and mentor – he began his inexorable rise.
By eight, he was being invited on to The Kelly Show to hit golf balls into a washing machine. And by the time Gray returned to the club, this time as the pro, Bannon having moved on to Bangor GC, McIlroy was 10 or 11 and “seriously good”.
Gray remembers one particularly windy round at Templepatrick. “Rory must have been 13 or 14 and the way he got around the golf course that day, in the wind, hitting these long, long irons for him ... mind you, I never imagined he would be world No 1.”
It is the same story at Sullivan Upper, McIlroy’s secondary school in Holywood. The family had by this time moved to a red-brick semi in Strathearn Court, opposite the school. You can still look over the wall and see the artificial putting green in the garden (Stephen Crooks, the head pro at Holywood, lives there now).
“When I first came here he was in year eight, a junior,” says Philip Dermott, the master in charge of golf. “He had just won the Junior World Series and had already been on The Kelly Show. And we developed a little team around him because he was already No 1, even as a junior playing with seniors. He feared no one. And he was just so driven. Forever practising or watching Nick Faldo videos or Tiger Woods videos. For a while there he was pretty much unbeatable [at schools’ level]. But as to how good he was going to become? No one had a clue.”
Stewart McCawl, one of Sullivan’s current players and an aspiring pro himself with a handicap of four, got to meet McIlroy when the newly crowned US Open champion returned to the school after his win at Congressional in 2011.
“Absolutely, he’s an inspiration,” he says. “He worked so hard, gave up everything, took a big risk leaving school after his GCSEs to play golf. We’ll definitely be voting on Sunday. I think everyone in Northern Ireland will.”
There has been the odd bump along the way, of course. As the cars and houses got bigger and smarter – McIlroy lost a fortune doing up and then selling a mansion called Robinhall House outside Belfast with its own purpose-built course – questions were asked.
Was he getting, to use McCrory’s description, too ‘up himself’? When McIlroy’s game stuttered last year, his high-profile move to Nike and even higher‑profile relationship with tennis star Caroline Wozniacki, with whom he split earlier this year after getting engaged, were both cited as factors. They never lost faith in Holywood. And that faith has been repaid.
McIlroy has developed into a fine role model, a young man with his own charitable foundation who has given millions back to the community that raised him; a poster boy for a new generation, for whom sectarianism is not an issue. McIlroy’s great-uncle was murdered in the Troubles but the family refused to be defined by it. The ongoing legal case with his former management company Horizon Sports has, Gray admits, “left a sour taste”.
“But I know Rory’s side of the story,” he adds. “Personally I think what Rory has done, keeping his feet on the ground despite his enormous success, is amazing. I know what I would be doing at 25 if I was a millionaire.”
Gray believes the influence of Jack Nicklaus over the last few years to have been “instrumental” in that respect, as well as the core team of friends and family he keeps with him. “Michael Bannon has been coaching the No 1 player in the world since he was a boy. How many videos would David Leadbetter and Butch Harmon have had out by now?” he says.
“You never know what the future holds but we’re all so proud of him. I think Northern Ireland will hit the phones on Sunday. Dame Mary Peters, I think, was the last person from here to win it [in 1972, though A P McCoy won in 2010]. She is thought of as an icon. I think people see Rory as an icon.”
