http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/572077/s/3e3b7575/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cengland0C110A80A4470CSwitzerland0Ev0EEngland0ERoy0EHodgson0Estill0Ea0Elocal0Ehero0Ein0Eadopted0Ehomeland0Bhtml/story01.htm
Roy Hodgson still a local hero in adopted homeland Switzerland
By Oliver Brown, Chief Sports Feature Writer
9:11AM BST 08 Sep 2014
Comments
Long before Roy Hodgson’s profane outburst in a Wembley corridor, despoiling his image as football’s foremost man of letters, Alain Sutter realised that there was a flip side to the manager’s cerebral, unruffled image.
“He has a lot of temper,” says Sutter, the dynamic blond midfielder whose Beckham-esque flourishes earned him ‘Spice Boy’ tag in Switzerland, back when Hodgson led the country to a first World Cup finals for 28 years. “Even though he is a gentleman and understands how to behave, he is also ready to fight. When you’re not treating him well, he knows how to defend himself. As a player, you knew he was polite, but never cross the line with Roy.”
The genial ‘Uncle Roy’ image has traditionally been a deceptive facade. Just as Hodgson is capable of giving an address to the Oxford Union, peppering his speech with allusions to Joseph Heller and Henry Kissinger, he can equally channel the role of the south London streetfighter with conviction, having once grabbed an Inter Milan press officer by the lapels and pinned him to a wall.
However, the quintessential Hodgson blend of iron discipline edged with erudition, of lecturing Leighton Baines on positional awareness at the same time as suggesting that he should read more Murakami, achieved no greater results than in Switzerland, where he returns on Monday night still adored as the man who transformed La Nati into officially the third best team on the planet, behind only Brazil and Germany.
Variously heralded as king of the cantons and a legend in his own ‘Länder’, Hodgson was acclaimed by fans as a “kind of god” when the Swiss qualified for the 1994 World Cup in the United States, just two years into his tenure. While it is fashionable to depict the 67-year-old, facing a critical test of his England credentials at Basle’s St Jakob-Park, as a myopic and intransigent manager, resistant to anything but two banks of four, one discovers that in his Alpine period he forged a reputation for quite the contrary.
Hodgson swears his new England plan will work
Rooney lined up for England left-wing role
Henderson limps out of England training
Why Rodgers is the man to rescue England
Who is the best Premier League manager?
Hodgson unleashes attack on critics
Blessed with such multifaceted strikers as Alain Sutter and Stéphane Chapuisat, Hodgson crafted a Swiss side who emerged as the top scorers in a World Cup qualifying group that also featured Italy and Portugal. Sutter, his star, recalls how the manager would always give free rein to such attacking enterprise.
“Roy was strict, but never stubborn,” he says. “He had an open ear – this was something very good about him. The door was always there to talk to him, but to convince him you needed to have good arguments. If you did, then he was able to change his mind.
“On the pitch, you still had your freedom. I was a very creative player, so I needed that space, and he left it to me. For all those who weren’t so creative, though, Roy would tell them exactly what they had to do. He knew precisely what style each individual had.”
The received English caricature of Hodgson, as a 4-4-2 obsessive whose charges are incapable of mustering more than two shots on target against Norway, has never held sway in his adopted Swiss homeland.
Indeed, the very reason why Gilbert Facchinetti, president of Neuchâtel Xamax, gazumped Malmo’s offer to Hodgson of a “job for life” was to offer an alternative canvas for his ever-fertile football brain. Hodgson himself admitted that he craved a “new challenge”, although the more honest answer was that he had grown weary of paying 65 per cent tax in Sweden.
Sure enough, the impact of ‘Roy from Croydon’ was immediate. Aside from guiding Neuchâtel to third in the league, he also engineered the two signature European results in the club’s history: a 5-1 Uefa Cup thrashing of Celtic in 1992, followed by a 1-0 victory over Real Madrid. The Celtic demolition was ascribed in large part to his own tactical acumen, where he scrapped the losing system from the first leg in favour of a more audacious formation spearheaded by Egyptian Hossam Hassan, who scored four goals. But with the Swiss federation jaundiced by the national team’s failure to reach any major finals since 1966, Hodgson would find that a greater calling awaited.
Early signs were auspicious as he replaced Uli Stielike in charge of Switzerland, imparting his methods with such clarity and decisiveness that his charges took four points in World Cup qualification off Italy, who would go on to reach the 1994 final in Pasadena.
Marc Hottiger, Hodgson’s redoubtable centre half and a talent later signed by Newcastle United and Everton, explains: “Every detail was important to Roy. We were a young team, and we needed to be coached like one. We had just missed out on qualification for Euro 92 with Stielike, and Roy brought the type of rigorous tactical culture that all Swiss football could use later on. He was the right coach at the right moment.”
Hodgson’s first World Cup game in Detroit showcased his readiness in adapt.
The Pontiac Silverdome might now be an abandoned, dilapidated husk, but on June 18, 1994 it was a broiling cauldron, the closed roof generating a 105-degree heat that made the Swiss players, according to one account, “sweat like cheeses”.
But Hodgson, who also had to contend with an injury to key forward Kubilay Turkyilmaz, was undeterred, ordering Chapuisat to play as the lone striker while Sutter and Christophe Ohrel wove merry mayhem down the flanks. The outcome, a 1-1 draw against the hosts, was a vindication of his versatility.
“Roy put himself under pressure,” Sutter says. “In difficult times for Switzerland he was always the same. He knew that he could be successful if he had the right players, but equally he recognised that if he didn’t, if he only had a little car, then he couldn’t make a Ferrari out of it.”
That metaphor was challenged when Switzerland sprang a 4-1 win against Romania in the final group game, equalling the famous scoreline they had accomplished against Italy in Basle in 1954 and providing perhaps the most potent rebuttal of Hodgson’s overcautious reputation.
Ciriaco Sforza, the cultivated Kaiserslautern midfielder who team-mates labelled the manager’s “darling”, was instrumental in this display, supplying a sumptuous lay-off for the third goal. According to Sforza, “few coaches work so meticulously until the last second as Roy – he lets the players spend hours practising until they have understood his style of football.”
While the 1994 training camp was, by Sutter’s admission, excessively long, spreading ennui among the players by the time they arrived in the US, the team became acutely aware of Hodgson’s disciplinarian ways.
“I wouldn’t describe our time in the US as relaxed,” Sforza says. “But to play a tournament without discipline or some tension is not possible.” In Sutter’s words: “If Roy had a plan, he didn’t move a bit from that. In the crucial matches players would be told how they had to move, how to act on the field. This is a key to his success, that he communicates very clearly and very strictly.”
For all the brickbats aimed at Hodgson of late, he encapsulated throughout his Swiss reign the agreeable face of the English manager abroad, using his polyglottery and diplomatic skill to build a formidably united team. While he first conducted television interviews at Neuchâtel in a deliberately halting version of his native tongue that would have embarrassed Steve McClaren, he soon came to master French, German and Italian so as to comprehend all the languages in his dressing room. He imposed upon his players the virtues he had championed ever since his first overseas appointment with Sweden’s Halmstad, in 1976: solid shape, fast counter-attacking, and an assiduous work ethic.
The World Cup ended a little anticlimactically for Switzerland, with a 2-0 defeat by Colombia in Stanford – the last match Andrés Escobar would ever play, before his murder by a Medellín drug cartel – and a 3-0 loss against Spain in the last 16. But Hodgson had highlighted the possibilities, fashioning a side full of vibrancy and élan. The fact that their four matches had comprised 12 goals emphatically gave the lie to any notion that his teams defined themselves solely by their obduracy or an ability to flood the midfield.
Not content with overseeing this coming of age, he also led the Swiss to euro 1996 with apparent ease, for the loss of only one game. He would not be in place for the tournament itself, switching to Inter Milan for a job he regarded as impossible to refuse. One further Swiss sojourn would follow, as Hodgson took the reins at Grasshoppers Zurich for a single season in 1999, leading them only as high as fourth. “The return to Switzerland was a mistake,” he acknowledged, and yet his legacy in this corner of the Alps was assured.
Hottiger says: “Stielike had done a good job, changing many players, a generation if you like, but Roy brought the kind of tactics we needed. He is the guy who took Switzerland to the World Cup after 28 years, a really important coach for Swiss football in general. We had a little dip from 1998 to 2004, but after that we qualified for all the tournaments. Since 1994 the federation have invested, too, in more youth academies, and that approach has created many successes. We have such a strong youth system because of him. He will always be seen as a great person here.”
Hodgson’s faith in the relative inexperience of his squad was reflected by the central performances of Sutter, Hottiger, Sforza and Ohrel, all of whom were 26 and under in ’94. But his willingness to indulge the odd left-field option was manifested in his inclusion of Georges Bregy, who had endured 11 years of isolation from the international fold before being brought back at the Hodgson at the age of 34. The manager, in an illustration of the pragmatism that is now his trademark, had seen enough of Bregy’s play for Martigny and Young Boys to conclude that the veteran could make a contribution. What wisdom it transpired to be, as he gave Switzerland their only goal in the opening World Cup game.
Hodgson demonstrated by his three years at the helm that he could be a master of simplicity, identifying the primary hallmarks of his team – pace, creativity and ingenuity – and designing a strategy that best harnessed these. Sutter is convinced that Switzerland begin as favourites against England this evening, but that the team assembled by Vladimir Petkovic still, unmistakably, bears Hodgson’s imprimatur.
“The very good players we have now in the national team, Roy developed them,” he says. “I have wonderful memories of him. We learned a great deal. All of Swiss football is very grateful that he was here.”
- 29 things that have changed since the World Cup - Paul Hayward: Rooney can learn from Bobby Moore's dark side - Wayne Rooney: Raheem Sterling can be the new Marc Overmars - Henry Winter: Roy Hodgson desperate to silence his critics - Scotland furious as Muller brace seals win for Germany - Michel Platini threatens retired Franck Ribery with suspension
