http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/600148/s/3fec0fce/sc/7/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Ccycling0C11194120A0CUCI0Eseeks0Eban0Eof0Eup0Eto0Efour0Eyears0Eon0ERoman0EKreuziger0Ein0Efighting0ECzech0Edecision0Eto0Eclear0Erider0Eof0Edoping0Echarges0Bhtml/story01.htm
UCI seeks ban of up to four years on Roman Kreuziger in fighting Czech decision to clear rider of doping charges
By Telegraph Sport, and AFP
8:11PM GMT 28 Oct 2014
Comments
The Court of Arbitration for Sport said on Tuesday that it had reopened a case against Roman Kreuziger after the International Cycling Union appealed against a Czech Olympic Committee decision to clear him of doping charges.
The Czechs said they were clearing the cyclist of the charges that had seen him banned from the sport for months over problems with his biological passport. But the UCI challenged the decision on Monday, as it had warned it might after president Brian Cookson said there was “a very strong indication of manipulation”.
In its appeal, the UCI requested that the CAS sets aside the Czech decision from Sept 22 clearing Kreuziger of any violations of UCI anti-doping rules.
It requested that the Czech cyclist be banned from the sport for between two and four years and that all of his results since March 2011 be erased. It also demanded that he be fined €770,000 (£610,000).
Following the appeal, the CAS said it had “initiated a procedure” against Kreuziger. “The arbitration procedure is in progress and the CAS will not comment further at this time,” it said.
Trott off to a flyer with six of the best
Vos and Trott relish Revolution scrap
Revolution Series, round one, first leg: as it happened
Telegraph Cycling Podcast: Is Froome serious about skipping Tour?
Kreuziger’s lawyer, Jan Stovicek, said his client had been expecting the UCI appeal.
“However, the strong arguments remain on our side,” he said in a statement, insisting that the expert panel of the Cycling Anti-Doping Foundation “decided on the alleged guilt of Roman Kreuziger on the basis of incomplete and insufficient information”.
Stovicek pointed out that his client suffered from a poorly functioning thyroid gland, and as the condition worsened he was required to take high doses of a substitute hormone L-Thyroxine during the time when suspicions against him arose. “We firmly believe that common sense will prevail,” he said.
The anomalies in his biological passport date from 2011 and 2012, during Kreuziger’s time with the controversial Astana team, but only came to light earlier this year.
The problems with his biological passport saw the 28-year-old Tinkoff-Saxo rider, who finished fifth in the 2013 Tour de France, omitted from his team’s squad for this year’s Tour. He was later provisionally suspended by the UCI, forcing him to miss the Vuelta a España and the world championships.
