http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/671040/s/43a7ecdf/sc/40/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Ccycling0Ctrack0Ecycling0C114256270CUCI0ETrack0ECycling0EWorld0EChampionships0E20A150EBritains0Ehopes0Erest0Ewith0Egolden0Egirl0ELaura0ETrott0Ein0Ethe0Eomnium0Bhtml/story01.htm
UCI Track Cycling World Championships 2015: Britain's hopes rest with golden girl Laura Trott in the omnium
By Tom Cary, Cycling Correspondent, in Paris
11:05PM GMT 21 Feb 2015
Comments
And then there was Laura Trott. Great Britain’s golden girl is still only 22 but the double Olympic champion will be carrying the hopes of the entire British team on her shoulders in Sunday’s final day of the UCI Track Cycling World Championships.
Jess Varnish also goes in the women’s keirin, as do Owain Doull and Jon Dibben in the Madison. But, realistically, it is all down to Trott.
Unless she can produce a final hurrah in the omnium on Sunday, Great Britain are in grave danger of failing to win a gold medal at a world championships for the first time since 2001.
Trott lay third overnight after winning both the 3km individual pursuit and then, in vintage fashion, the elimination race late on Saturday night. It was a delayed finish after a leaky roof held up play for a while.
Britain have certainly been a bit of a damp squib so far. For so long the sport’s dominant force, Jason Kenny’s limp exit in the first round of the men’s sprint on saturday, at the hands of the Venezuelan Hersony Canelón, was the latest blow in a week which has raised difficult questions of the squad.
Sutton questions hunger after Britons flop again
Team Sky enjoy brace of wins
Britain's women's pursuit team thrashed by Australia
British sprinters fall short
The triple champion admitted he had been left “looking like an idiot” after being “caught napping” by Canelón in their clash. But is the lack of Parisian gold a genuine cause for concern? Or can British cycling fans rest easy in the knowledge that the squad will get it right in Rio in 18 months time? It depends what is meant by ‘get it right’. Certainly fans can forget about the eight cycling gold medals Britain took in Beijing and then again in London. That sort of dominance is unlikely to be repeated ever again – by anyone.
Not only has the rest of the world closed the gap in the last few years, but Britain can no longer call on the services of once-in-a-generation riders such as Sir Chris Hoy and Victoria Pendleton. “Despite the so-called ‘medal factory’, Olympic gold medallists are very rare,” Chris Boardman, the 1992 Olympic champion, noted. “And if you get one, they tend to stick around as long as they can retain their performance and motivation. And you get as much out of them as you can.
“We’ve actually relied on a very small group of people to do the majority of the medalling for a long time. I think of the eight golds [in Beijing], Chris was three wasn’t he? None of the events is a foregone conclusion any more. The world has moved on.”
Even the two silver medals Great Britain have won so far in Paris – in the men’s and women’s team pursuit – have come with caveats.
The women’s quartet set a personal best at sea level and were justifiably pleased with their time. But they still found themselves thrashed by Australia, who have taken the event to another level altogether this week, finding a whopping three seconds from somewhere.
Suddenly that gold ‘banker’ is right up in the air.
The men’s endurance squad are the one genuine positive from the week.
From eighth in qualifying last year, the men’s team pursuit quartet have made big strides. With Sir Bradley Wiggins and possibly Pete Kennaugh still to return, there is still room for improvement, although they were fortunate to find an Australian squad so off their game on Thursday. Still, there is good strength in depth there.
Andy Tennant rode a fine individual pursuit to finish fifth on Saturday, Owain Doull has now ridden a 3:54 and there is future talent in 18-year-old Matt Gibson who finished an impressive sixth in the scratch.
In the sprint events, the prognosis is not so positive. Our women sprinters, shorn of the services of double world champion Becky James, are simply not among the best in the world at the moment.
Our men’s team sprint lacks a man three and it is not certain, or indeed reasonable, to expect Callum Skinner or Kian Emadi to make the necessary step up in performance in the next year.
“We can turn it around in 18 months,” Kenny insisted. “It’s not like we’re 100 miles away. Eighteen months before Beijing I wasn’t even at the world championships. There’s all the time in the world.”
That may be the case. But a gold medal from Trott on Sunday would still go a long way to calming nerves at the end of what has been a difficult week.
