http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/671040/s/43913532/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Ccycling0Ctrack0Ecycling0C114240A570CGreat0EBritains0Ewomens0Epursuit0Eteam0Ethrashed0Eby0EAustralia0Eat0EUCI0ETrack0ECycling0EWorld0EChampionships0Bhtml/story01.htm
Great Britain's women's pursuit team thrashed by Australia at UCI Track Cycling World Championships
By Tom Cary, Cycling Correspondent, in Paris
9:34PM GMT 19 Feb 2015
Comments
The world has not stopped spinning on its axis but it felt a bit like it in Paris on Thursday night as Great Britain’s women’s pursuit team were defeated for the first time in over four years.
Their reaction, though, to what was, in truth, an absolute thrashing – Australia annihilated the old world record of 4 min 16.552 (which GB had set at altitude) with a 4-13.615 – was exemplary. Having recovered from the gargantuan effort (Elinor Barker threw up into a nearby bin before the podium ceremony), and congratulated their vanquishers, the GB quartet were busy resetting their goals, looking ahead to next year.

“I was thinking ‘enjoy it while it lasts, girls – the worlds are in London next year’,” Joanna Rowsell said when asked what was going through her mind while the Australian national anthem was playing.
And after that, of course, the Olympic Games in Brazil. That is the endgame. For all Rowsell’s fighting talk, though, this discipline is it is not looking quite so rosy for GB this morning. Our women pursuiters were our banker.
Trott second best as Britain fail to win a single gold
Sutton questions hunger after Britons flop again
British sprinters fall short
British hopes rest with golden girl in Paris
There was more encouraging news on the men’s front, with the GB quartet of Ed Clancy, Andy Tennant, Owain Doull and Steven Burke also taking silver on Thursday night, in a thriller against New Zealand; a marked improvement on this time 12 months ago when they qualified eighth in Colombia, prompting a fearsome rebuke from then head coach Shane Sutton.
GB’s time on Thursday night of 3-54.687, six tenths behind the Kiwis, was not only a reflection of how quick this track in St Quentin-en Yvelines is, it was also a reflection of the fact that this squad is in a far better place physically and mentally.
With Sir Bradley Wiggins still to return, and potentially others such as Pete Kennaugh, too, there was a mood of optimism afterwards. “It was only a month ago Burkey was lying in the road with a broken collarbone,” Clancy enthused. “Doull was cut to ribbons [after being involved in the same crash in Majorca] and I didn’t think we were coming here.
“We had a shocker of an event [in 2014]. Understandably we got a fair bit of flak for that. But this was a massive improvement. Shane said to us this morning, irrespective of what happens today, we can do Rio now – and he’s right. There’s more to come.”

The women will hope so, too. Of the quartet of Rowsell, Barker, Laura Trott and Katie Archibald, only Rowsell had ever tasted team pursuit defeat before.
Trott admitted that they were half-expecting this one given the manner in which the Aussies had qualified. But all the same, the margin of victory in the final, which saw GB adopt a “high risk strategy” with Rowsell doing two big turns on the front before sitting up midway through the 4km, was astonishing. GB finished over three seconds back in 4-16.702; their fastest time ever at sea level but still nowhere near Australia.
“We’ve never gone anywhere near a 4-13 so hats off to them,” Trott said. “But I wouldn’t say it’s worrying. It’s a year and a half until Rio. As long as we keep moving forward, I guess that’s all we can ask for.”
Rowsell went further, arguing that the defeat could well prove a blessing in disguise, pointing to GB’s defeat at the worlds in 2010. “That was two years out and was the best thing that could have happened,” she said.
“There was maybe a bit of complacency at the time.”
There was no hat-trick of medals, with triple Olympic sprint champion Jason Kenny continuing to prove an enigma on the world stage. The big question after his keirin exit revolved around his weight and whether it might be an idea to pile on 10kgs or so, an idea of which his fiancée Trott might not approve.
“We tend to put all our eggs in the team sprint basket, it’s the way we’ve always worked,” he said. “It’s no good putting 10kgs on and then not being able to get it off the start line. But there may be merit in it [bulking up].”
