http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/616203/s/2a7ab370/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Csailing0C9980A260A0CNext0EVolvo0EOcean0ERace0E20A140E150Eset0Eto0Ebe0Etoughest0Eever0Bhtml/story01.htm
Next Volvo Ocean Race 2014-15 set to be toughest ever
By Kate Laven, Kate Laven
8:04PM BST 08 Apr 2013
Comments
By the time the fleet arrive in France, they will be just days away from the finish in Gothenburg having completed not one but two Southern Ocean legs and traversed waters that few will have ventured into before.
It is the second leg from Recife in Brazil to Abu Dhabi that is already taxing the knowledge banks of prospective navigators hopeful of gaining selection for the next race.
"That will be pretty tough," said Jules Salter, a past Volvo winner and one of the most experienced navigators in the world.
"There are lots of challenges there – but spending a month upwind in the Southern and Indian Oceans then going into the Gulf where you get massive great wind holes which could see you parked up for days could be difficult especially if it is close, which it is likely to be."
The second leg is a marathon 9707 nms and was described by race CEO Knut Frostad as 'one of the most interesting, diverse and difficult ever sailed in this Race'.
All-female crew for Volvo Ocean Race
Sailing race weeks around the world
Cardiff to host Volvo Ocean Race stopover
Ian Walker launches third attempt at Volvo Ocean Race crown
Brazilian team enters 2014-15 Volvo Ocean Race and wins stopover bid
In the last race, an increase in piracy off the east African coast forced organisers to take the safety option and load the racing yachts onto a cargo ship to make the dangerous passage to the Gulf of Arabia. They were loaded at Male in the Maldives and taken to Sharjah before a short final sprint into Abu Dhabi.
This time, with the pirates less active in that region, the boats will race all the way to Abu Dhabi, a leg that is likely to take almost six weeks.
The fleet will then head to Sanya in China once more before returning to the Southern Ocean for a second time.
"There then follows an incredibly challenging section of the race on the way around Cape Horn before a long overdue visit to Newport and a trip back across the Atlantic to a fantastic three-stop European finish," Frostad added.
"From brand new ports like Recife to now familiar stops such as Abu Dhabi, Sanya, Itajaí, Lisbon and Lorient, and classic sailing cities such as Auckland and Newport, this route gives just about the perfect mix of old and new."
With the route now confirmed, Volvo is expected to start unveiling the other entries for the 2014-15 race. British yachtswoman Sam Davies has been selected as crew member on the Swedish all girls boat Team SCA with many tipping her as the likely skipper while Ian Walker will skipper another confirmed entry Abu Dhabi Ocean Racing.
Brazil, France, Spain and Switzerland are all set to announce with entries over the next few weeks as the new Volvo one designs, the Volvo 65s begin assembly at Green Marine near Southampton.
The Race will start on October 4, 2014 when the first of ten In-Port Races is staged in Alicante. It will finish nine months later with the last In-Port Race on June 27, 2015 in Gothenburg in Sweden.
