http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604258/s/3d6ff650/sc/17/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Colympics0Cparalympic0Esport0C110A290A220CInvictus0EGames0E20A140EHow0ECaptain0EHarris0Edefied0Edeath0Eand0Ean0Eamputation0Eto0Erepresent0EGreat0EBritain0Bhtml/story01.htm
Invictus Games 2014: How Captain Harris defied death and an amputation to represent Great Britain
By Gareth A Davies
6:57PM BST 12 Aug 2014
Comments
Captain Tony Harris epitomises what it means to compete at the inaugural Invictus Games.
Five years ago he was “worrying about dying in hospital” but says the best decision he made after being blown up in Afghanistan by an improvised explosive device (IED) and undergoing more than 20 operations was to have his left leg amputated.
Since that operation more than four years ago, he has climbed mountains, completed the gruelling 9,000km Dakar Rally, and now aims to represent Great Britain at sitting volleyball against 13 other nations at the Olympic Park next month.
Like many of the servicemen and women at the Invictus Games, he is on an extraordinary journey to recovery after injury at war.
Harris joined the army in 2001, two days before the Twin Towers were hit by terrorist attacks, attended Sandhurst and was commissioned as an infantry officer into the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers.
Invictus Games 2014: meet the heroes
'I want to show my gratitude’
Sport helps Vice reveals triumph over appalling adversity
Invictus Games will capture public's imagination
A celebration of sacrifice and fighting spirit
'Pressure was trying to find bombs’
After two years in Northern Ireland, he was deployed to Iraq in 2005, the first of three tours there, and then in April 2009 to Sangin, Helmand Province, in Afghanistan.
“It was a pretty bad year for British casualties. In the six months the battle group was out there, I think there were 25 killed and over 100 wounded, which is pretty high even by world war standards,” he says.

On May 21, he was involved “in a firefight with the enemy out in the desert, east of Sangin” and in the aftermath the vehicle Harris was in was hit by an IED.
“It wasn’t a roadside bomb, because there were no roads,” he says. “Both of my feet were shattered in the initial blast and it threw me about 20 metres from the vehicle and on landing I snapped my left arm in half. Fairly innocuous injuries by the usual standard.
“The vehicle was brilliant. I didn’t get any fragmentation injuries or anything, just the blast. You can’t do a huge amount about that.
“My driver sitting next to me was absolutely fine and the gunner was fine as well. These two young lads came and got me, as I was 20 metres from the vehicle, and they found another six devices between me and the vehicle on their way to getting me.
"I was in a helicopter within 35 minutes and there was, weirdly, a Sky news team on there at the same time. That was a bit odd.
“I got back to Camp Bastion within an hour and was immediately sent through to the operating theatre.”
But then the situation deteriorated.
“Unfortunately, I got an infection in the left foot and spent about nine or 10 months in hospital. I had between 20 and 30 operations on my foot.
"They were trying some new type of medicine, and used muscle flaps and skin flaps, and they were trying to increase the blood supply to my heel to be able to fight the infection better. It’s a really difficult area for the body to heal.
"The clinical staff did amazing stuff, and there were loads of ancient techniques coming back into fashion — stuff that wouldn’t have been out of place back in the Egyptian times.
“It can be quite lonely and you can feel quite isolated. You want to get back and you’re doing everything you can to get better. I didn’t want to have to walk with a stick for the rest of my life.”
So he took a serious decision: a below-the-knee amputation of his left leg. That was in March 2010. “It’s the best decision we made in the whole process,” Harris insists.
Within eight weeks he had climbed Pen y Fan at nearly 900 metres in Wales; he took part in Race2Recovery, completing the Dakar Rally with Tom Neathway, a triple amputee.
“The injury wasn’t going to be the thing that ruined my life,” Harris says. “It was going to be the thing that made it better and gave me more focus about what I can do and what I can achieve.”
Now, the challenge will be competing in sitting volleyball at the Invictus Games.
They are about survival in the face of adversity, and the strength of the human spirit, summed up by the Victorian poem Invictus, by William Ernest Henley, who was an amputee.
The poem stirs something in Harris.
“Reading it strikes a chord and it’s hard to believe it was written so many years ago,” he says. “It starts with the black days and it describes them in a way that is absolutely honest.
“To appear before the public and throw yourself into something and show you can be as good as you want to be at anything is a wonderful opportunity.
“I was stunned by the level of support at the Paralympics. It was just as well attended just as all the events at the Olympics.
"That demonstrated two things to me. One, the British public are probably the best in the world in terms of supporting people. And, two, we’re proud, as a nation, of people who have had to work hard and sacrifice to turn their life around.
“Physically, the competitors may look different, but their appetite to win hasn’t changed. If anything, it has grown since their injury. Now they’re even more hungry to succeed and prove people wrong.
“To represent Britain and the British Armed Forces is a wonderful achievement. Five years ago I was worrying that I might die in hospital.”
