http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675696/s/44300376/sc/36/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Cbenefits0Eof0Einfocomm0Ecertifications0Eoutweigh0Ecost0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Benefits of infocomm certifications outweigh cost
As infocomm professionals, we can get our infocomm competencies valued by independent bodies, such as the Singapore National Infocomm Competency Framework (NICF) certification.
Infocomm professionals in Singapore are still very much valued by the big brand employers they have worked for or the big brand customers they have serviced. Certification of infocomm expertise, whether for proprietary technologies or international standards, can cost as much as about one month's pay.
Despite the various tangible incentives and the potential intangible benefits of being regarded as a people developer, employers are generally still reluctant to spare the money and time for their infocomm staff to go for training and certification, unless they increase the chances of winning sales deals for the business.
Use IT in class? Train your teachers
Schools will often equip the classroom -- but forget to train the teacher.
Customers with high expectations are definitely the main cause of schedule pressure and disruptions. But I would say "saving cost" is a reason that is not sufficiently challenged. Often forgotten are the indirect tangible costs, such as delays and repairs due to insufficient knowledge, and intangible costs, such as lower efficiency and lower effectiveness due to lower staff morale.
Now that there are free online courses by internationally respected institutions, we as infocomm professionals can manage our own learning needs at our own pace. The classroom discussions at NICF courses are useful ways to discuss practical situations with the experienced instructor and fellow practitioners. We may discover that our problems are actually common in the industry or that we know more than we realize with respect to our industry peers. NICF courses are also useful for gaining exposure to other infocomm areas we are interested in. NICF certification of our infocomm competencies is an unbiased endorsement that we meet the expectations in the Singapore infocomm industry.
Aligning our infocomm knowledge to the industry segment we work in is just as important as aligning to the business. With our learning objectives in place, every infocomm problem at work can become an interesting challenge. And after we solve it, we move one step forward even if the environment changes.
With this last article, I wish to thank you, dear readers, for forwarding the articles to your contacts and for taking the effort to share your views. May you retain or regain your passion for infocomm.
