http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675703/s/442ff400/sc/36/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Cncrs0Esilver0Etablet0Epos0Eshines0Ein0Ereporting0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
NCR's Silver tablet POS shines in reporting
Point-of-sale (POS) powerhouse NCR isn't thrilled with upstart tablet vendors stealing its potential market share: hence its aggressive update to the Silver offering in December 2013 . An early customer, Happy Belly Curbside Kitchen, says what sets the NCR technology apart is its sophisticated reporting features.
"It has changed the way we operate: it's easier and faster to get the information we need, in the field, instead of having to go back into the office to add things up," said Happy Belly owner Joe Bruno. "Cash sales, credit card sales, taxes: I have more metrics than ever, which helps me better control waste and inventory."
The two-year-old business, based in Atlanta, operates several food trucks that cater fresh, organic and local cuisine. Bruno, who took over the business from his brother-in-law, switched technologies primarily to gather better data for the company's catering operations, which account for about 50 percent of sales. The application integrates tightly with QuickBooks.
One of the biggest benefits was the system's ability to roll up lots of small individual transactions into something akin to a bar tab. "In the past, at events where one person was paying the bill, we would have to log in at the end and manually add up the changes," said co-owner Amie Bruno, in a statement. "This was arduous and time-consuming, but NCR Silver automates that entire process, which is huge for us."
Happy Belly previously used another service, but now has the NCR software up and running in four trucks. "The weekend that we switched, we had one of the biggest festivals that we attend every year. We never missed a beat," Joe Bruno said.
NCR Silver starts at $59 per month for one device; if you want to hire someone to set up the systems, it'll set you back $299.
Related stories:
