http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675704/s/452d43ca/sc/15/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Cfive0Ereasons0Eto0Echoose0Ethe0Esamsung0Egalaxy0Es60Eedge0Einstead0Eof0Ethe0Ehtc0Eone0Em90C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Five reasons to choose the Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge instead of the HTC One M9
I couldn't decide if the Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge or HTC One M9 was the better choice for my next smartphone so about 10 days ago I pre-ordered both. After spending a week with both T-Mobile versions, I returned one and kept the other.
My HTC One M9 review was based on the international model and after using the T-Mobile model for a week, my rating should have been an 8.5 out of 9.5, primarily because the camera is not as good as what I found in the Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge.
I posted my Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge review yesterday and if the battery life was better I would likely have given it a near perfect 10. Most consumers don't use their smartphones as heavily as I do so consumers may find the battery perfectly acceptable.
The best HDMI operating system sticks
There's a new kind of computer in town and it's resides on an HDMI stick that's not much bigger than a pack of gum.
Both the HTC One M9 and Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge are excellent choices and the one we purchase is a personal decision. The One M9 may be the one for you, but these are a few of the reasons I chose the S6 Edge over the M9:
Regular readers know I like HTC Sense and have purchased HTC One devices in the past. I honestly expected the HTC One M9 to beat out the Galaxy S6 Edge, but should not have counted out Samsung so quickly.
HTC's One M8 was a nearly perfect device last year and most reviewers believed HTC just needed to improve the camera to knock it out of the park this year. While I hoped to see an 8 megapixel+ UltraPixel, HTC went with a more standard 20 megapixel camera. That could have been a good strategy as well, but my camera tests show HTC still has work to do on the image processing software.
You can get good pictures using the HTC One M9, but may have to tweak the ISO and exposure value settings and take time setting up the shot just right. I still see HTC's camera blowing out background light and the lack of optical image stabilization (OIS) on a flagship 2015 smartphone is frustrating.
I think my perfect smartphone would be a combination of the two; the HTC One M9 design and HTC Sense UI with Samsung's camera. HTC really had one major feature to focus on and it seems more like the camera selection was an afterthought.

| Image 1 of 33

Galaxy S6 Edge back

Galaxy S6 Edge retail package

Galaxy S6 Edge retail package contents

Front of S6 Edge and Note Edge

Back of S6 Edge and Note Edge

Back of S6 Edge, HTC One M9, Sony Xperia Z3

Galaxy S6 Edge in hand

Galaxy S6 Edge in hand, back

White and black S6 Edge

Bottom of the S6 Edge

S6 Edge home button and fingerprint scanner

Upper right side of S6 Edge

Top of S6 Edge

Top left of S6 Edge

Above the display on the S6 Edge

Pile of new smartphones

Typical home screen panel

New settings area

More S6 Edge settings

Editing the quick controls menu

Download themes

Setup the people edge display

Interacting via the edge display

Fingerprint scanner setup

Quick camera mode buttons

Some camera settings

Selfie at sea

Entering the Ballard locks

Passing through the Ballard locks

Boats on Lake Union

Flowers at Pike Place Market

Fish market in Seattle

Mod pizza
