http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675786/s/4563b814/sc/23/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Cbox0Eacquiring0Eonline0E3d0Econtent0Eeditor0Everold0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Box acquiring online 3D content editor Verold
Box announced on Tuesday morning it has acquired computer graphics startup Verold.
Founded in 2010, Verold produced an online visual editor for rendering 3D content for desktop and mobile channels based on WebGL, described by Box CEO Aaron Levie as "the modern standard for delivering high performing graphics processing to the web."
Verold CEO Ross McKegney added in prepared remarks that when his company debuted Verold Studio for the first time three years ago, developing computer graphics on the web was simply "a playground for a handful of creative coders" without any "sign of broader adoption."
"We knew that WebGL meant we could do interactive 3D in the browser, and that interactive 3D had the potential to be an even bigger data-type than video on the web," argued McKegney. "We could offer a level of engagement that video could only dream of, and this would disrupt not only traditional media industries, but would reach much more broadly into areas as diverse as commerce, marketing, manufacturing and design, healthcare, and education.
Nevertheless, Verold's online 3D ambitions garnered attention from tech titans from e-commerce to software, inking deals with the likes of Amazon, Pearson Education and Autodesk, among others.
The Verold team will be integrated into Box's development and engineering departments to ramp up production for supporting 3D projects in the theme of Box's ongoing industry-specific strategy.
This includes developing tools and apps for collaborating across a variety of verticals from education to manufacturing.
Noting that WebGL has only become an "ubiquitous standard" in the last few years, Levie elaborated further in a blog post how Verold's 3D conversion and viewing technology could be utilized by enterprise customers on the Box platform.
"Take for example a commercial construction contractor, faced with the challenge of collaborating on multiple projects at once with partners and contractors, or previewing detailed design drawings when in the field," Levie suggested. "Or an athletic wear retailer tasked with delivering the latest product design iterations across geographically dispersed teams."
Financial terms of the deal have not been disclosed. Box and Verold are still hatching out a road map to tie up Verold's loose ends with existing customers. Finalized details are promised to follow in the next few weeks.
After carefully picking acquisitions few and far between over the last few years, Box appears to be speeding up its M&A activity with rapid speed.
Last month, the Los Altos, Calif.-headquartered company nabbed BYOD-driven startup Subspace to bolster compliance controls.
Box's previous acquisition history includes online document tool maker Increo Solutions in 2009, iOS app Folders and document embedding service Crocodoc in May 2013 , and dLoop in November 2013 for stepping up data analytics and security.
