http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675786/s/453e35f9/sc/28/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Csalesforce0Ecom0Eupgrades0Esales0Ecloud0Eb2b0Emarketing0Eautomation0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Salesforce.com unveils new Sales Cloud B2B marketing automation tools
Salesforce.com is giving one of the cornerstones of its cloud empire a boost, weaving together some of the remaining threads of its biggest acquisition to date.

Salesforce.com adds Jawbone, Oculus Rift, smart devices to wearables platform
The San Francisco-headquared company unveiled the next iteration of the B2B marketing automation service under the Sales Cloud umbrella, features made possible by Salesforce Pardot.
The two major additions are Engagement Studio and Sales Cloud Engage, both of which promise yet even more visually-rich, data-driven insights for fostering relationships with sales partners and customers.
Described by Salesforce as the "nerve center" for the operation, Engagement Studio was built to enable sales and marketing professionals to build adaptive campaigns, which react to and readjust in real time to more than 100 different behavioral responses.
For example, if email open rates are determined to be slower than desired, Engagement Studio could suggest shortening the subject line, according to Salesforce. Furthermore, if unsubscribe requests shoot up, the system will suggest reducing (or halting) the number of emails sent out altogether.
Sales Cloud Engage is supposed to take customized ad campaigns a step further while also breaking down the borders for prospect and client data within the Salesforce platform.
"The sales rep, can also easily pull up the prospect's entire engagement history with the company, making every touch point with the prospect more relevant and more likely to convert," explained Salesforce reps in Thursday's announcement. "Data and insights that used to only be under the purview of marketing are now seamlessly integrated with sales."
Pardot stems from Salesforce's landmark $2.5 billion acquisition of ExactTarget in 2013. ExactTarget bought up Pardot in 2012.
ExactTarget has since become the backbone of Salesforce's Marketing Cloud, streamlining the cloud giant's social media revolution strategy while the company paves the way for its Internet of Things-minded platform, Salesforce1.
Salesforce Pardot is already available, starting at $1,000 for up to 10,000 contacts per month. Sales Cloud Engage will become generally available on April 23, starting at $50 per seat per month.
A pilot program for Engagement Studio is scheduled to follow in the second half of 2015. Pricing is promised to be announced at that time.
