http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675769/s/4492a1f8/sc/21/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Ccan0Etag0Eheuer0Eintel0Egoogle0Ecollaborate0Eand0Ecreate0Ea0Esmart0Eenough0Ewatch0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Can TAG Heuer, Intel, Google collaborate and create a smart enough watch?
TAG Heuer, Google and Intel are collaborating on a smart watch that'll look like the already fashionable Swiss watches floating around today. The big question is whether this trio can collaborate and ultimately produce a just smart enough watch that has balance.
The news, which was delivered at the watch powwow Baselworld 2015, was made official at a press conference. The money quote in the release from Jean-Claude Biver, president of the watch division at LVMH Group and CEO of TAG Heuer, said:
And that's where things get interesting. To date, smart watches as a category have been plagued with the following:



| Image 1 of 16

Apple has finally released its newest product line – the Apple Watch. This, the company claims, it its most personal device to date. Let's take a look at what this new product has to offer.
See also:

The Apple Watch comes in three different varieties:

Comes in two sizes:

Comes in two sizes:

Priced from $10K rising to a whopping $17,000 depending on the band, the Apple Watch Edition will be available from selected outlets.

The aluminum used to make Apple Watch Sport is 60 percent stronger than standard alloys, while the stainless steel used to make the cases is up to 80 percent harder through a specialized cold-forging process.

Apple is saying that the Apple Watch has an 18-hour battery life, which means nightly charging using the snap-on inductive charger.
No word on how much real-world usage users can expect from the device.

The Apple Watch will be available for pre-order and preview from April 10 in the following territories, with the product starting to ship April 24:

The Apple Watch is not a standalone device, and needs an iPhone to work its magic. In fact, it offloads much of the hard work onto the iPhone in order to extend battery life.

The Apple Watch will feature a highly-customizable face, allowing it to display a wide range of information.

The Apple Watch puts a lot of emphasis on health and fitness, with motion trackers that monitor your movements and a heartrate monitor to keep an eye on that side of things.

... all from your wrist! You can finally talk to your wristwatch!
Wearers will also be able to send and receive iMessages, as well as emails and communications from other apps.

The Apple watch introduces novel communications methods using sketches and even sending heartbeats.

The Apple Watch leverages Siri so you can dictate messages, create appointments and much more. This means that you don't have to peck away at a microscopic keyboard!

Apple has integrated the convenience of Apple Pay directly into the Apple Watch, making it even easier to use.

With the Apple Watch wearers will be able to show boarding passes, hail cabs using Uber, unlock hotel doors, scroll through Instagram and much more.
With all that said, perhaps Intel, Google and TAG can come up with something that's unique yet not. When you boil down the release and strip out terms like "win-win," "fusing beauty with technology" and "collective approach" it's evident that Google, Intel and TAG may be onto something. The flip side is that the collaboration could be a train wreck.
See CNET's Wearable Tech rankings
The wild card is whether Silicon Valley and Swiss watchmakers can really collaborate. Traditional watchmakers will focus on artistry and Intel and Google will aim to throw a kitchen sink of technology at you. The goal here should be simplicity.
Why? The answer isn't a smart watch. The win is likely to be a just smart enough watch with a bit of luxury.
