http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675790/s/453fbbd2/sc/15/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0C11th0Ehour0Edecision0Esurface0Epro0E30Estays0Echromebook0Epixel0Ereturned0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
11th hour decision: Surface Pro 3 stays, Chromebook Pixel returned
A couple weeks ago I began my new return date decision feature with my planned decision for the 2015 Chromebook Pixel. That decision was reversed in the 11th hour and my Chromebook Pixel is back on the shelves at Google.
The Chromebook Pixel is a fantastic piece of hardware and if my primary occupation was that of a writer I would still have it today. However, I work as a professional engineer for my main job and it turns out my Microsoft Surface Pro 3 is a better tool for me.
Writing on the Chromebook Pixel was a joy and I was able to fly across the keyboard. I loved carrying the Pixel around the house and working from any chair or table. I enjoyed watching a couple of movies on the gorgeous display. Streaming music while writing was also great.
The Ultimate Surface Pro 3 Reviews Roundup
I'm getting ready for another week out of the office and while I was planning to take the Chromebook Pixel and use a free Gogo in-flight pass or two, I realized I would also have to take along the Surface Pro 3 to use my engineering programs, access Vision for timesheet entry, and have full access to my job directory hosted at the office.
ZDNet's Kevin Tofel is a Chromebook expert and tried to help me keep the Pixel by making sure I knew I could remotely connect into a work desktop. However, I use a laptop at the office and it is not setup to support remote access. While I might be able to work with the IT folks to make this happen, I already have a functional Surface Pro 3 and could not justify these efforts.
Using the Chromebook Pixel for the last couple of weeks actually helped me appreciate my Surface Pro 3 even more and motivate me to use it more often in tablet mode with the pen. The Surface Pro 3 hardware is as elegant as the Chromebook Pixel; both are leading designs for those respective platforms.
I did not feel the limitations of Chrome OS on the Pixel and actually my wife and I showed off her HP Chromebook 14 to some neighbors and three of them are now enjoying their own Chromebook. There is definitely a use case for the Chromebook and if you want the ultimate experience then the Chromebook Pixel is a choice you will not regret.

| Image 1 of 11

Microsoft's Corporate Vice President Panos Panay unveils the new Surface Pro 3 tablet.

The Surface Pro 3 features a 12.0-inch display with a 2160×1440 resolution, closer to a 3:2 aspect ratio, and has 4K display support.
The optional keyboard also has a built-in trackpad.

The Surface Pro 3 weighs in at 1.76 pounds, which is lighter than the Surface Pro 2, which weighs 2 pounds, and it is even lighter than an iPad Air and MacBook Air stack.
The iPad Air alone however, which weighs in at a shade over 1 pound, continues to be lighter than the Surface Pro 3.

The new Surface Pro 3 comes with a new input device — a $49 pen (if you ever need a replacement) developed by N-trig.
The pen is deeply integrated with OneNote on the Surface Pro 3. Clicking the button on the pen fires up OneNote, which clicking it again syncs everything to the cloud. Double-clicking the pen fires the camera and drops the photo into OneNote.

The Surface Pro 3 also comes with a new multi-position kickstand.
This new stand can lock in the normal 22 degree position, or it can swing all the way to 150 degrees canvas mode, with infinite steps in between.
According to Microsoft this hinge took three years to develop.

Microsoft made a big deal during the announcement of the "lapability" of the new Surface Pro 3 tablet. Microsoft claims the device is much easier to use than the previous-generation Surface on laps.
Here it is being demoed by the WSJ personal technology columnist Joanna Stern.

The new cover, which attaches to the tablet using magnets, has been redesigned and features a new, more user-friendly trackpad.
The keyboard will be available in a range of colors.

At the heart of the Surface Pro 3 is an Intel Core processor, and Core i3, i5, and i7 will be offered.
Microsoft says this is the thinnest Intel Core product ever made, coming in at only 9.1mm (0.358 inches) thick.

The Surface Pro 3 has enough power to run Adobe's Photoshop CC. Adobe is also working on a tablet-optimized version of this application specifically for the new Surface Pro 3.

Microsoft says this is the thinnest Intel Core product ever made, coming in at only 9.1mm (0.358 inches) thick.
However, despite being this thin Microsoft chose to cool the Intel Core processor with a fan which the company claims is 30 percent more efficient than any other CPU fan in the market today.

The Surface Pro 3 will be available in the following configurations:
- Core i3, 4GB RAM, 64GB storage - $799- Core i5, 4GB RAM, 128GB storage - $999- Core i5, 8GB RAM, 256GB storage - $1,299- Core i7, 8GB RAM, 256GB storage - $1,549- Core i7, 8GB RAM, 512GB storage - $1,949
Those are prices for the tablet only. If you want the keyboard you will have to fork out an extra $130, which takes the price of the cheapest tablet plus keyboard combo to $929. A replacement pen — if you ever need one — costs another $49.
