http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675812/s/45179373/sc/28/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Capplecare0Efor0Eapple0Ewatch0Eby0Ethe0Enumbers0Ebig0Epotential0Erevenues0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
AppleCare+ for Apple Watch by the numbers: Big potential revenues
Pre-orders for the Apple Watch begin one week from today on April 10 with availability of the wearable device two weeks after that. April 24 is the day you'll be able to walk into an Apple Store for the watch, along with the reported option of AppleCare+ protection.
Sources tell 9to5 Mac's Marc Gurman what to expect when it comes to AppleCare+ pricing for the watch: $59 for the Sport, $79 for the standard Apple Watch and a whopping $999 for the Apple Watch Edition. Apple hasn't officially announced such pricing yet but Gurman's scoops are generally accurate. Gurman reports that AppleCare+ for the watch will differ from iPhone and iPad protection plans in that it will cover two additional years of support instead of just one.

At first glance, these prices may seem high, but I don't think they are. And they represent another reasonably large revenue stream for Apple. So why don't the prices seem too exorbitant? Two reasons come to mind.
First is the watch industry itself. I occasionally add to my analog watch collection with my last purchase being a $700 Hamilton bought at Tourneau, an authorized watch dealer for many brands. As soon as I decided on the watch I wanted, what did the salesman offer? A timepiece protection plan, which I bought for around $120, covering everything for two years. These plans aren't uncommon at all for mechanical timepieces; premium watch buyers are used to this.
Second is the precedent sent by Apple on its other products. Buy an iPhone for $650 or more and you can add AppleCare+ for $99 to add an additional year of support and protection, plus two replacements (for a $79 charge) on any accidental damage. In this case, AppleCare+ works out to 15.23 percent of the base model iPhone's purchase price.
The starting price for an Apple Watch Sport edition is $349, making the $59 AppleCare+ again 16.9 percent of the purchase price. The percentage is a bit lower for the base Apple Watch: A $79 AppleCare+ plan costs 14.38 percent of the watch price. On a percentage basis, AppleCare+ for the Apple Watch edition is the best deal on paper, working out to an even 10 percent of the watch price, but this model will be a small percentage of total Apple Watch sales.
How much revenue could AppleCare+ generate for Apple then? We'll likely never know for sure, but we can make some reasonable assumptions. If you figure that just one in 10 iPhone owners that bought an iPhone in the past year buy an Apple Watch in the next 12 months and again 1 in 10 of those go for AppleCare+, the figure is more than $100 million. And I think the 10 percent attach rates here are conservative.
Based on Apple's own reported figures, the company has sold 192.66 million iPhones in the past four fiscal quarters. Some people who bought iPhones prior to that may opt to buy an Apple Watch, but again, let's keep this fairly conservative and ignore them for the moment.

| Image 1 of 6

The Apple Watch is coming, and while pundits and consumers are undoubtedly getting excited about the prospect of buying something new and shiny, Apple's entry into this market will undoubtedly shake up a number of industries.
Here are five industries that the Apple Watch is going to disrupt. There may be more, but these are the five that are going to feel the entry of the Apple Watch the most.
See also:

Let's start with the most obvious business model that's going to be disrupted.
Without even once uttering the word 'smartwatch,' Apple has dropped an atomic bomb into the existing smartwatch market.
Rather than focus on making a small, awkward, hard to use companion device for a smartphone, Apple has not only designed an accessory that brings a raft of new features to the table, but come up with innovative solutions to some fundamental problems that have plagued smartwatches.
Take for example the Digital Crown. Here's an idea that takes the concept of a crown found on a wristwatch and gives it a 21st century spin. It's one of those forehead-slapping "why didn't I think of that" ideas that Apple is so good at bringing to products.

Both the iPhone 6 and the Apple Watch place a huge emphasis on fitness, counting your steps and how many flights of stairs you've done, and encouraging you to move like a friendly drill instructor.
Apple's products now feature a raft of sensors – from accelerometers to barometers to heart rate monitors – to monitor your movements and cajole you into shifting your carcass more.
While this is great for people's health, it's not so good for the existing players in the market. Companies such as Jawbone and FitBit are going to have to gaze deep into the ideas well and start innovating, and fast, perhaps moving to paid-for apps that leverage the sensors in the iPhone to compliment a physical wearable.

Think it's just the smartwatch market that Apple has disrupted? Think again.
The Apple Watch will be offered in three lines, and at the top-end will be the Edition line, which will be crafted from 18-karat gold and feature a polished sapphire crystal lens. Throw in the different finishes and straps and these are features that you find on high-end timepieces.
For the first time, Apple is making a clear play for the fashion market, and this could lead to the company doing a lot more interesting things. After all, if there's one market with a bigger markup than Apple currently enjoys, it's the luxury goods market.
Let me be specific. The market most at risk is the mainstream one. Cheap watches will still be cheap (Casio, Timex, etc), and high-end will still appeal to those who want to throw many thousands on their wrist attire (Omega, Rolex, etc). Those in the middle are most at risk of being crushed by the Apple Watch, especially since Apple wants its watch to be mainstream (because that's what sells).
Those at the high-end which may be vulnerable to the Apple Watch could be those which could be considered fashion accessories. Apple is spending a lot of money courting the fashion industry and fashion magazines. Apple is clearly eyeing this market.

While the likes of WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger might be enjoying more column inches than iMessage these days, the Apple Watch could change that.
While traditional messaging tools allow people to communicate using words and emojis, the Apple Watch will take this several steps on, allowing people to communicate in new and more intimate ways, with sketches, taps, sound bites, and even heartbeats.
These are methods which are personal. Specific. Intimate.
Think these are gimmicks? People thought the same about emojis, and look how popular they are now.

More and more home devices connect to, or are controlled by, our smartphones. But what's easy to do with a smartphone that's buried in a pocket or bag will be easier to do with a device that sits on the wrist.
I see the Apple Watch becoming the tool of choice for unlocking your doors (and possibly your car), switching your lights off and on, twiddling your thermostat or AC, and so much more.
We're going to see a lot of interest in the Apple Watch from companies involved in IoT.
A 10 percent annual attach rate would work out to 19.26 million Apple Watches sold. Let's keep things simple and dismiss those who spend $10,000 or more for the pricey Apple Watch Edition. A split between the two other base models -- and again using the 10 percent AppleCare+ attach rate estimate -- would give Apple 1.9 million protection plans for its new wearable device. Use the average cost between the two reported plans and you get nearly 2 million people paying $69 to Apple, adding a theoretical $138 million in annual revenue.
Apple Watch Edition perks vs. price: There's an absurdity to it
The emerging world of luxury devices means no lines, VIP phone support and private service. But there's an absurdity to it given the technology won't hold value over time.
That's a drop in the bucket for Apple's overflowing bank accounts, of course, but I think it's also a worst case scenario based on the conservative estimates and by using base model watch pricing. Boosting attach rates for the Apple Watch will only put upward pressure on the revenue for AppleCare+. And I'm not even accounting for the expensive Apple Watch Edition, which has the potential to add another $1,000 per buyer.
As far as those estimates on how many Apple Watch buyers will opt for the protection plan, I think a fair number will.
No, they won't likely be dropping their watch accidentally like they might with an iPhone or iPad. But a watch is often "invisible" when you're not looking at it; it's far too easy to forget you're wearing one only to bang your wrist into a desk, cabinet, door or something else that will scratch or break your favorite timepiece.
