http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675814/s/44f77989/sc/15/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Capple0Ebegins0Eiphone0Etrade0Ein0Eprogram0Efor0Eold0Egalaxy0Enexus0Ehandsets0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
​Apple begins iPhone trade-in program for old Galaxy, Nexus handsets
Apple has expanded its handset trade-in program in the US and UK, offering credit towards a new iPhone when customers hand in their old device - regardless of manufacturer.
The new re-use and recycling program helps owners of smartphones from Sony, Samsung, Nokia, LG, HTC, and BlackBerry to upgrade to an iPhone.
Rumours of the new program were reported last month and were seen as a new effort by Apple to grow its already impressive iPhone sales.
Until now, Apple had only accepted iPhones for its trade-in program. However, from this week, people that trade in their non-Apple smartphones will be given credit towards the purchase of an iPhone 5c, iPhone 6, or iPhone 6 Plus, but not an Apple Watch, according to 9to5Mac.
People can take their old devices into an Apple store for an immediate evaluation or mail it in. In the UK, Apple is partnering with Brightstar to accept trade-in devices that have been posted in. Users need to select their device brand, model, and how much storage it has, and confirm that it's in decent condition. After that, they will be given an estimated value.
For a Sony Xperia Z3 in good condition, Brightstar will send the user a £136 Apple Store gift card. A Nexus 5 LTE has a trade-in value of £61, while at the other end of the spectrum, a 32GB Samsung Galaxy S5 will get the owner £144 in Apple credit. Samsung's devices, in Brightstar's estimates, don't hold their value as well as iPhones. The 32GB iPhone 5s will get the owner a £170 Apple Store gift card.

Apple notes that the estimated values provided online and in-store may vary.
It's unclear whether the non-iPhone trade-in program has been expanded to the rest of Europe. However, consumers in EU markets outside the UK may be able to trade in their non-Apple devices at an Apple Store.
ZDNet has asked Apple for clarification and will update the story if it receives one.
The new program for the UK and US has arrived as Apple is reportedly preparing to launch a trade-in program for China. Until now Apple has only helped consumers recycle their old Apple hardware, but hasn't offered credit. Apple is said to be partnering with Foxconn to handle the trade-in.
Read more on this story
