http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675818/s/44d23e88/sc/21/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Chuddle0Egarners0Efedramp0Egovernment0Ewide0Ecloud0Ecertification0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Huddle garners FedRAMP certification for government cloud data
Enterprise cloud platforms of all sizes, from Box to IBM, are racing in every which way to rack up industry and government certifications for safely managing corporate data.
The latest cloud company to garner a critical (and valuable) data badge is Huddle, which is boasting to be the first cloud collaboration service granted FedRAMP Authority to Operate (ATO) by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID).
FedRAMP, a.k.a. the Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program, is a U.S. Government-wide program established to speed up cloud deployments by federal agencies with a uniform approach and guidelines when it comes to security.
Other cloud giants with FedRAMP status handed down by other government departments include Microsoft Office 365 and Amazon Web Services.
The London-based business has already been accredited on a similar level in its home country, providing cloud-based collaboration, sharing and storage services for approximately 80 percent of central U.K. government departments.
Stateside, Huddle also counts NASA and the Office of the Secretary of Defense and the National Institutes for Health among its customer base.
The Software-as-a-Service company recently underwent a leadership shuffle in January, with new CEO Morten Brøgger tasked with signing on more corporate customers in new markets worldwide this year.
Brøgger's predecessor, Alastair Mitchell, is also focusing on building and scaling Huddle's global brand and footprint in his new roles as president and chief marketing officer.
With additional offices in San Francisco, New York and Washington, Huddle secured itself another $51 million in venture capital funds after completing its Series D round in December.
At the time, Huddle said it planned to keep growing its geographical footprint in the United States and Europe while doubling the size of its product team.
Some of Huddle's most high-profile customers to date include Panasonic Europe, NASA, and 80 percent of central U.K. government departments.
Huddle unveiled a new secure publishing platform in August with a decked-out analytics dashboard aimed at these particular demographics. Designed for collaboration among teams, the cloud-based collaboration and publishing platform is meant to be accessed by users both within and outside a designated firewall.
