http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675822/s/4503db94/sc/15/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Cchromebook0Epixel0Evs0Eacer0Echromebook0E130Ewhy0Ei0Ebought0Ethe0Eacer0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Chromebook Pixel vs. Acer Chromebook 13: Why I bought the Acer
The Acer C720 Chromebook has served me well for over a year, but recently I decided I wanted to get a new Chromebook with best-in-class performance that could handle all of my work needs.
See related: The best Chromebook ever: Google's 2015 Pixel| New Chromebook Pixel: Crystal clear display, keyboard a joy, ultimate in design| Am I psyched for Pixel? Sure. But older Chromebooks age gracefully
Having reviewed many Chromebooks and owned several, it didn't take me long to reduce the field of candidates to two models. The new Chromebook Pixel from Google made the short list as it is the best equipped Chromebook. Second behind it was the Acer Chromebook 13, which I reviewed late last year. Even though the Acer trailed the Pixel in the performance category, I purchased it for several reasons.
Since my goal was to get a Chromebook with good performance, the Pixel was a solid candidate. The Intel Core i5 and i7 processors are the top CPUs available, and the Pixel is the only Chromebook with those options.
The Acer Chromebook 13 has the Nvidia Tegra, the only model with this chipset. The Tegra is a fast mobile processor which is coupled with Nvidia's high-performance graphics. It yields outstanding performance and does so in a very power-stingy manner.
Chrome OS is very light and runs well on lesser hardware. While faster hardware is always a good thing, on the Chromebook once you pass a certain threshold it is overkill. When performance gain is measured in milliseconds, faster processors only bump the speed so much.
The Nvidia Tegra runs Chrome OS superbly. Things happen instantly without lags of any kind. Tap something on the screen and you get an immediate reaction. It may not be as fast as the Pixel, but when performance is this good it doesn't matter.
Processor aside, the amount of system memory also plays a significant role in how well a Chromebook runs Chrome OS. Many systems I've used, including the Acer Chromebook 13 I reviewed, only have 2GB of memory. This slows down the device when too many web pages and Chrome apps are open. Chrome OS has to refresh them when you move to something else and then return.
That's why I bought the Acer configured with 4GB of memory. This is enough to keep the refreshes to a minimum, which makes performance even better. That's why the Acer is the best performing Chromebook I have used.
The Pixel is available with 8GB or 16GB of memory, an impressive capacity for a Chromebook. It's also overkill for running Chrome OS, unless you're one of those users who keeps dozens of browser tabs open. I'm not one of those so 4GB is more than enough to handle my needs.
The Pixel can be purchased with either 32GB or 64GB of local storage, an impressive amount for a Chromebook. The Acer Chromebook 13 I purchased has 32GB of storage, so it's comparable to the Pixel.
Fact is, these storage capacities are both much more than I need. I keep everything stored on my 1TB Google Drive storage, so local storage is just for offline use. Anything stored locally offline goes right up to the cloud when I'm back online.
As one who regularly works remotely with a Chromebook, battery life is second in importance only to performance. It doesn't matter how fast a laptop might be if the tank is dry and it is dead.
This is where the Acer Chromebook 13 rivals the Chromebook Pixel. With the Tegra mobile processor it lasts 11 hours on a charge. That runtime can stretch to 13 hours with attention to power management. That's a 2-day business trip when you get right down to it.
The Pixel is no slouch in this area either. Google claims it will get up to 12 hours on a charge. That's pretty good for an Intel Core processor on a system with such impressive graphics.
Next: Display, Price

