http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675834/s/4529f25b/sc/15/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Clg0Eg40Esmartphone0Eto0Eoperate0Eon0Eux0E40E0A0Esoftware0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
LG G4 smartphone to operate on UX 4.0 software
South Korean tech giant LG has said that its new UX 4.0 user interface will be simpler, easier, and "smarter" than its previous iterations, with the company saying that it will also offer wider choices, especially for professionals, by putting in more configuration options.
UX 4.0 will be seen first on its upcoming next-generation flagship phone the G4, and will be updated on other devices in the future, LG said.

A new feature is "Quick Shot", which allows users to take pictures of easy-to-miss moments while the screen is turned off. It works by tapping the volume button on the back twice.
Users will also be able to collect different apps in widget form so that they can view them all at once. Icons are simplified and there are fewer menus, the company said.
The camera feature also comes in three modes: Professional, regular, and simple, all of which can be set by the user. LG claims that using the UX properly allows users to take pictures that are comparative to those taken with a DSLR camera.
The calendar has been upgraded so that schedules loaded on a user's social network service can be dragged in to be viewed. The photo gallery automatically groups pictures depending on where and when they were taken. Ringtones and alarms can all be automatically set, too, LG said.
The G4 is expected to be bound in natural leather, according to company insiders, and the marketing focus will be on design and software.
LG last week sent out invitations for the unveiling of the G4, which will occur sequentially in six countries.
Events in New York, Paris, and London are slated for April 28, while those in Seoul, Singapore, and Istanbul will take place on April 29.
The invitation, which featured a light-brown leather-coloured background with white stitches, comes with the tagline "See the Great, Feel the Great", with the letter "G" in LG's traditional font for the G series.
LG insiders said the invitation shows the "natural leather sheets" used for the back cover of the G4.
In March, LG Electronics head of mobile Juno Cho revealed at Mobile World Congress (MWC) in Barcelona that besides the G4 and its new line of budget smartphones, LG has a "super" flagship phone planned for the second half of the year.
