http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675652/s/442fd412/sc/46/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Care0Eyour0Ehr0Eapps0Eripe0Efor0Ecloud0Emigration0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Are your HR apps ripe for cloud migration?
Like virtually all legacy outsourcing companies, India's Hexaware Technologies is actively building up its cloud services and integration capabilities, with a particular focus on applications to help enterprises manage their human capital.
"The first wave of cloud adoption was in the CRM world. Human resources represents the second wave," Moorthi Chokkanathan, global head of Hexaware's Enterprise Solutions group, told me during a recent conversation about the company's strategic focus.
As many companies assess their overall cloud migration strategies, many are opting for cloud-based human relationship management (HRM) applications rather than migrating outdated legacy HR systems and applications over to cloud infrastructure, Chokkanathan said.
Hexaware's primary solutions in this area center on its expertise in Oracle's Fusion Human Capital Management, Workday, and SAP's Success Factors, he said. "A lot of companies have not modernized these applications in 10 years, so it is the right time. There is an excellent opportunity for them to skip the migration and move to these platforms far more quickly," he said. Often, that transformation takes an average of three months.
The company's mobile application development practice is also growing quickly. Two of Hexaware's alliance partners in this space are application development platform provider Kony and Jamo Solutions, which provides automated mobile application testing.
One thing throttling adoption of corporate mobile apps is the back-end integration challenge. "Some sort of tinkering has to be done before the information can be consumed," Chokkanathan said. Still, Hexaware has managed several mobile projects related to supply chain optimization, HR processes, and financial management, he said.
As of September 2013, Hexaware had 8,900 employees globally, along with 225 active clients; its key verticals include banking and financial services, health care and insurance, and travel and transportation. The company reported revenue of about $390 million for 2013, up about 6.4 percent year over year. As of the fourth quarter of last year, the company had four clients generating more than $20 million in annual revenue and 55 accounts generating more than $1 million, according to its earning report for that quarter.
Hexaware has three onshore delivery centers in the United States. They are in New Jersey, Georgia, and Texas, which was announced last year.
Related stories:
