http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675849/s/44de62fc/sc/33/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Coracle0Elearning0Ecloud0Elaunched0Efor0Eemployee0Etraining0Eon0Ethe0Ego0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Oracle Learning Cloud launched for employee training on the go
Oracle has a new cloud platform of sorts for enterprise employees -- especially those that tend to have to juggle a lot of tasks while on the go.
Oracle: Can it really sacrifice margin for commodity cloud?
Workplace training and education have often been sedentary practices, practically chaining would-be students to their desks as videos and quizzes go on and on.
The Redwood City, Calif.-based corporation unveiled its new Oracle Learning Cloud amid its HCM World trade show in Washington, D.C. on Friday to give these employees a little more wiggle room in both timing and location.
The new promises to provide employees with training capabilities from "wherever they are," sourcing content from digital troves such as YouTube and Massive Open Online Courses (MooCs), among others.
The Learning Cloud also promises contextual and social learning functions, educating users in real-time with personalized recommendations based on job types and skills. Employees can also use the platform to create and share content derived from Learning Cloud while providing social encouragement to other employees also undergoing training.
The Oracle Learning Cloud falls under the umbrella of the Oracle Human Capital Management Cloud (Oracle HCM Cloud), which in turn falls under the tech titan's general (and now quite formidable) Oracle Cloud.
Despite some qualms over currency conversions and whatnot, Oracle has repeatedly championed its burgeoning cloud portfolio as its shining star on the last several earnings reports.
Oracle chairman and CTO Larry Ellison has gone so far as to predict that Oracle -- now the second largest Software-as-a-Service provider worldwide -- would soon surpass its fierce industry rival Salesforce.com by the end of the year.
In the meantime, the Oracle Learning Cloud can be accessed from any "modern" Internet-connected device and network, from Wi-Fi to 3G/4G mobile devices.
