http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675849/s/44cd8991/sc/21/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Coracle0Eto0Erecruit0E10A0A0A0Ecloud0Esales0Estaff0Ein0Eapac0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Oracle to recruit 1,000 cloud sales staff in APAC
Kim Hyoung-lae, regional managing director of Oracle South Korea, has said that the company will hire 1,000 new sales staff members throughout the Asia-Pacific region, as well as 100 within South Korea.
During a press conference in Seoul, Kim also said that the data giant is actively discussing the possibility of building a new datacentre in the country.
To meet the strong demand of clients, who are increasingly transferring their data infrastructure into the cloud, it will hire a total of 82 sales people for cloud and 18 consultants, he said, which in turn is part of a large hiring plan in the Asia-Pacific region.
Oracle has stated that its software-as-a-service (SaaS) and platform-as-a-service (PaaS) businesses grew 30 percent during the third quarter last year, with each part clinching 800 and 400 new clients, respectively. In South Korea alone during the quarter, SaaS revenue rose 240 percent, the company said, while PaaS is also becoming increasingly popular in the country.
Oracle Korea will use its recruitment homepage and suggestions from its employees to secure the 100 fresh recruits as quickly as possible.
"Oracle has decided to invest over $5 billion in cloud, and I think we are the most promising in the area for the future," said Kim.
He also said that the company's potential plans to build a datacentre in South Korea are "not final", stressing that it has over 20 datacentres worldwide and has no problem servicing local clients. Meanwhile, rivals IBM and Microsoft are building new datacentres in the country to better service their clients there.
The past year has seen Oracle Australia and New Zealand's cloud services portfolio overtake its on-premises business in terms of revenue, Oracle Australia and New Zealand regional managing director Tim Ebbeck announced on Tuesday.
"It's absolutely clear to me that midway through last year ... we started earning more revenue from our applications business from our cloud, or SaaS-based, business, than we did from our on-premise business," said Ebbeck. "It's not that our on-premise business has completely died, it's just that we're doing exceptionally well in the SaaS portfolio at the moment."
Oracle this month announced its Q3 results, with a net income of $2.5 billion, or 56 cents per share, and non-GAAP earnings of 68 cents per share on a revenue of $9.3 billion.
On Tuesday, Oracle signed a memorandum of understanding with Samsung SDS, with Samsung set to use Oracle's global solution partner program to optimise the South Korean firm's solutions with the US giant's database, middleware, and system know-how to target the Chinese IT logistic market.
Source: ZDNet Korea (zdnet.co.kr)

