http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675849/s/447a38e0/sc/21/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Coracles0Emoving0Eparts0Eheres0Ethe0Eq30Eroll0Ecall0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
​Oracle's moving parts: Here's the Q3 roll call
Oracle reports its fiscal third quarter results and it's unclear whether cloud euphoria can eclipse its potential struggles elsewhere.
The company's second quarter was notable because the results topped low expectations and most analysts hopped on the Oracle cloud bandwagon all at once. Oracle has a similar set up for the third quarter as analysts are worried about currency fluctuations, but upbeat about the company's cloud potential.
Cloud Computing: Moving to IaaS
Infrastructure as a Service providers make a very compelling argument for businesses to stop running their own data centers and simply purchase server capacity on-demand and scale up and down as needed. This is our deep dive on IaaS strategy and best practices
Wall Street is looking for third quarter non-GAAP earnings of 68 cents a share on revenue of $9.47 billion. The fourth quarter outlook will also be put under the microscope. Oracle is expected to report earnings of 94 cents a share for its fiscal fourth quarter on revenue of $11.44 billion.
Previously:Oracle updates big data portfolio, aims to be 'visual face of Hadoop' | Briefing: Oracle's cloud strategy and the points to ponder | Oracle woos cloud customers: Time for a kinder, gentler enterprise experience? | Oracle: Winning cloud perception game with IT buyers | Oracle gets its cloud due: Can it sustain it? | Oracle's Larry Ellison talks cloud catch-up game with Salesforce.com
Here's a look at the moving parts:
Oracle's transition to the cloud. In the end, the only thing that matters is how Oracle transitions to the cloud. Oracle's chore: Produce double digit cloud growth and offset soft license revenue. Piece of cake right? Looked that way last quarter. We'll see how that works this go round. Keep in mind that Oracle is going broad with software-, platform- and infrastructure-as-a-service (SaaS, PaaS and IaaS for those keeping acronym score).
Stifel analyst Brad Reback said:
In December, Oracle said it expects SaaS and PaaS revenue growth of 30 percent to 34 percent in constant currency with IaaS sales growth of 30 percent to 34 percent.
Database 12c In-Memory Option. The in-memory option of Oracle's latest database isn't expected to boost the fiscal third quarter, but may factor into the fourth quarter outlook and fiscal 2016, according to Credit Suisse analyst Philip Winslow. Winslow said in a research note that Oracle's database license growth under constant currency could move toward 10 percent as in-memory takes off.
Applications. Winslow added that PeopleSoft and JD Edwards will struggle, but the E-Business Suite as well as CXM (customer experience management) tools should do well. Oracle execs are likely to tout Fusion application wins.
Hardware. Few analysts expect Oracle's hardware business to light it up. As usual, Oracle will see decent demand for its engineered systems, but weakness in its UNIX server and storage businesses. Hardware revenue could grow over time, analysts argue. Wedbush analyst Steve Koenig said in a research note:
