http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675849/s/442ff6c4/sc/46/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Ctesora0Eprovides0Eagent0Eto0Eprovision0Eoracle0Edatabase0Ein0Eopenstack0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Tesora provides agent to provision Oracle Database in OpenStack
Only three years ago, Oracle wanted to do the cloud it own way, and ignore open-source cloud efforts in general and OpenStack in particular. After reflection, Larry Ellison thought better of that idea. By May 2014, Oracle announced OpenStack support for its Linux and the Xen hypervisor. On February 18, Oracle partner and DataBase as a Service (DBaaS) company Tesora is bringing the Oracle database management service (DBMS) and OpenStack together.
Tesora is doing this with a Trove guest agent for Oracle Database 12c. Trove is OpenStack's DBaaS program. Trove's goal is to enable database administrators (DBAs) to quickly and easily provision relational or non-relational databases while automating deployment, configuration, patching, backups, restores, and monitoring. In addition, Trove is designed to support a single-tenant database within a Nova (OpenStack's compute engine) instance.
While most of the talk about Oracle Database 12c has been about the speed increase from its in-memory option, Oracle pushes it as the world's first database for the cloud. The end-goal is for Oracle Database 12c to enable DBAs to "plug-in" databases over a cloud without requiring changes to existing DBMS applications.
What Tesora brings to this is that they've added Oracle DBMS support to its customized version of Trove. Ordinary, vanilla Trove supports only MySQL and Apache Cassandra. The Tesora version of Trove also supports CouchDB, MongoDB, Redis, and PostgreSQL.
The Tesora guest agent for Oracle is designed for enterprises that want to deploy Oracle databases in private clouds. With the Trove guest agent, DBAs will be able to create, configure, and start Oracle pluggable databases within a container database environment. Tesora claims that "the Oracle container database can be pre-provisioned on dedicated hardware to deliver an ideal user experience and efficient use of resources."
This works by having the Trove guest agent act as a proxy between OpenStack and the Oracle server to administer databases. In a statement, Ken Rugg, CEO of Tesora, said, "The Oracle multi-tenant option and OpenStack Trove are a good fit for organizations looking to deploy Oracle Databases efficiently in enterprise private clouds."
Related Stories:
