http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675865/s/453c1b43/sc/15/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Csamsung0Eexpects0Es60Eand0Es60Eedge0Eto0Ebe0Erecord0Esellers0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Samsung expects S6 and S6 Edge to be record sellers
Samsung Electronics' mobile boss has said that its soon-to-be-released Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge will be the best-selling devices ever in its flagship Galaxy S series.
In a press conference in Seoul, Samsung co-CEO JK Shin told reporters that the new flagship devices will move more units than their predecessors.
Also at the conference, Lee Sang-chul, head of strategic marketing, Samsung Mobile, said the South Korean tech giant, after reviewing feedback from distributors and consumers, is expecting the S6 and its curved-edge sibling to sell Samsung mobile's highest number of units ever.
Before the unveiling of the handsets at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona last month, South Korean analysts initially estimated that the devices would move 40 million units, but have all upped their sales target after the launch to over 50 million units.
Samsung's previous best seller in the Galaxy S series was the Galaxy S4, launched in 2013. The Galaxy S5 released last year received mixed reviews due to its design and lack of innovation over its predecessors.
Shin also admitted that the Galaxy S6 Edge, which has received more favourable reviews than the standard Galaxy S6, will face some supply problems.
"It is not easy to combine a curved, three-dimensional screen to a flexible display while making it sturdy, so for the time being, supply will be limited compared to demand," said the co-CEO.
"Our team is working hard to increase the yield rate [of the display] and improve supply so that we can resolve the issue of limited supply to our worldwide consumers."
The mobile boss also indirectly addressed the video recently posted online that tested the durability of the Galaxy S6 Edge and claimed it broke under less pressure than Apple's iPhone 6 Plus.
"The Galaxy S6 and Galaxy S6 Edge used highly durable 6013 aluminum and high-quality curved glass [in its construction]," he said. "Even when dropped, they can withstand most shocks, and attempting to bend them will not cause any problem."
Global sales for the new devices start on April 10.
Source: ZDNet.co.kr
