http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675865/s/450e769c/sc/15/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Csamsung0Egalaxy0Es60Eand0Es60Eedge0Eeverything0Eyou0Eneed0Eto0Eknow0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Samsung Galaxy S6/S6 Edge: Everything you need to know

| Image 1 of 7

Samsung has finally unveiled its long-awaited and much-rumored flagship smartphone. Well, two smartphones to be accurate. Joining the standard Galaxy S6 is the Galaxy S6 Edge that features a dual-curve display.
First, let's take a look at the basics:
But these are just the bare specs, let's take a deeper look at some of the changes.
Availability: April 10.
See also:

Got stuff to do, you're in a hurry and your smartphone is almost flat? The Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge features a fast charge function that gives you 4 hours of usage from a 10-minute charge.
The Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge also feature wireless charging, supporting WPC and PMA standards, as well as offering support for Qi-enabled chargers.
One downside is that you'll have to purchase the wireless charging pad separately, which is a bit of a rub.

As well has having a larger f1.9 aperture front and rear camera – which should dramatically help low-light performance – Samsung has worked on making the camera faster to access. Samsung claims that you can launch the camera in 0.7 seconds no matter whether you are using the smartphone or it is locked.

Both the Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge are equipped with a 5.1-inch 2,560×1,440 (QHD resolution) Super AMOLED display with a pixel density of 577 ppi.

With the Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge Samsung has moved away from plastic to adopt a seamless, full metal and glass construction. The glass comes in the form of the highly durable Gorilla Glass 4, and the glass has been treated with a special reflective material on the inside to give it a highly jeweled finish.

The Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge will be offered in White Pearl, Black Sapphire, and Gold Platinum options, along with a special Blue Topaz for the Galaxy S6, and Green Emerald for the Galaxy S6 Edge.

The upsides:
The downsides:
Thinking about picking up one of Samsung's new flagship Android smartphones? Here's everything you need to know about the Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge.
The Galaxy S6 Edge's curve on the edge of the screen which can be used to present information in cool (gimmicky?) ways. Features such as "Information Stream," "Night Clock," "Edge Lighting," and "People Edge" make use of the curved edge as secondary displays. Some of these features are already present on the Note Edge.

Is this useful to you? Only you can answer that. Personally, I think some interesting stuff might come of this if/when it is ever opened up to third-party developers (assuming there's enough interest in the S6 Edge to attract developer attention).
Other than the fact that the display extends over the edge on the S6 Edge, the two devices share exactly the same display spec. Both feature a 5.1-inch Super AMOLED panel with a screen resolution of 2,560 x 1,440 pixels and a pixel density of 577 pixels per inch.
On the dimensions front, there are some minimal differences between the two handsets:
The bigger display on the S6 Edge has resulted in Samsung giving it a slightly larger battery:
Both are smaller than the 2800mAh battery capacity of the Galaxy S5.
On the processor front, the S6 and the S6 Edge share the same silicon, an Exynos 7420 SoC built using 14-nanometer architecture. It features an octa-core 64-bit (4 x 2.1GHz cores and 4 x 1.5GHz cores) along with a Mali-T760 GPU. Both have 3GB of RAM and come in 32/64/128GB storage options.
On the design front, the Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge will be offered in White Pearl, Black Sapphire, and Gold Platinum options, along with a special Blue Topaz for the Galaxy S6, and Green Emerald for the Galaxy S6 Edge.
Oh, and there's the price. The S6 Edge will set you back $100 more than a comparable S6.
With the Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge Samsung has moved away from plastic to adopt a seamless, full metal and glass construction. The glass comes in the form of the highly durable Gorilla Glass 4, and the glass has been treated with a special reflective material on the inside to give it a highly jeweled finish.
As well has having a larger f1.9 aperture front and rear camera - which should dramatically help low-light performance - Samsung has worked on making the camera faster to access. Samsung claims that you can launch the camera in 0.7 seconds no matter whether you are using the smartphone or it is locked.
You can remove icons from the user interface (UI) by disabling apps, but the removed app still remain on the flash memory. This means that while you can streamline the UI, the unwanted apps still take up space on the flash memory.
It's a compromise, but it's a step in the right direction, but it's still annoying that Samsung doesn't give users a proper - and permanent - way to delete unwanted apps.
When it was revealed that Samsung was doing away with the removable battery on its flagship Galaxy S line, some fans were disappointed. However, it turns out Samsung's new Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge do have removable batteries after all... well sort of.
The battery is actually removable, as long as you're happy to deal with adhesive, a handful of tiny screws, removing the circuit board, and voiding the warranty.
The procedure is described as being "only for your service provider or an authorized service agent" and makes it crystal clear that if you break anything while carrying out the process yourself, you're on your own.
If you want to try this out, here's how to do it.
