http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675865/s/4503d7a2/sc/15/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Csamsungs0Egalaxy0Es60Eedge0Edont0Eoverthink0Eit0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Samsung's Galaxy S6 Edge: Don't overthink it

The reviews are in for the Samsung Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge and they are positive across the board. Now it's time for the inevitable round of overthinking about the S6 Edge, and those curved slivers of screen.
We tech navel gazers have to harp on something. As I noted before the S6 Edge screens on each side of the device don't do a whole lot. In a nutshell, the Edge gives you notifications on calls, Tweets and messaging. The S6 Edge also makes a nice alarm clock.
Thinking about the actual functionality and purpose misses the point. I've had the S6 Edge in the wild for about a week. Everyone I've run into looks at the S6 Edge and thinks it's pretty damn cool. No one asks about the functionality.
More: Analytics apps would give Samsung's Galaxy S6 Edge more enterprise heft | Samsung Galaxy S6, S6 Edge available April 10: It's all about the base | Samsung's Galaxy S6: How it was designed | Samsung Galaxy S6 first look: The productivity edition
I could go on about the camera, which is well done, or shooting video in UHD if you're so inclined. But the conversation begins and ends with the curved screen and how it's unique.
More than a few tech writers have had the Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge for about a week. So now we need a storyline and will go fumbling around for deeper meaning about the S6 Edge.

| Image 1 of 7

Samsung has finally unveiled its long-awaited and much-rumored flagship smartphone. Well, two smartphones to be accurate. Joining the standard Galaxy S6 is the Galaxy S6 Edge that features a dual-curve display.
First, let's take a look at the basics:
But these are just the bare specs, let's take a deeper look at some of the changes.
Availability: April 10.
See also:

Got stuff to do, you're in a hurry and your smartphone is almost flat? The Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge features a fast charge function that gives you 4 hours of usage from a 10-minute charge.
The Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge also feature wireless charging, supporting WPC and PMA standards, as well as offering support for Qi-enabled chargers.
One downside is that you'll have to purchase the wireless charging pad separately, which is a bit of a rub.

As well has having a larger f1.9 aperture front and rear camera – which should dramatically help low-light performance – Samsung has worked on making the camera faster to access. Samsung claims that you can launch the camera in 0.7 seconds no matter whether you are using the smartphone or it is locked.

Both the Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge are equipped with a 5.1-inch 2,560×1,440 (QHD resolution) Super AMOLED display with a pixel density of 577 ppi.

With the Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge Samsung has moved away from plastic to adopt a seamless, full metal and glass construction. The glass comes in the form of the highly durable Gorilla Glass 4, and the glass has been treated with a special reflective material on the inside to give it a highly jeweled finish.

The Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge will be offered in White Pearl, Black Sapphire, and Gold Platinum options, along with a special Blue Topaz for the Galaxy S6, and Green Emerald for the Galaxy S6 Edge.

The upsides:
The downsides:
Exhibit A is this take from The Verge. Vlad Savov ponders what the S6 Edge design says about the future of smartphone design, ergonomics and how Samsung isn't adhering to Google's Material Design principles.
CNET's take on the Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge.
Whoa slow down Vlad. First, Samsung's design is closer to Google's Material Design than I ever expected. Samsung basically would add three layers to Android with previous Galaxy smartphones. Then again no one outside of the tech world cares about Material Design or even knows what it is. And second, the Edge screen is quintessential Samsung, which throws gimmicks out and sees what sticks. Once in a while stuff sticks and becomes a hit. Phablets?!? Really?!? Who would have thought holding a phone book to your head would be so cool Apple even had to follow Samsung.
Yet the S6 Edge overthinking will continue as the Samsung S6 duo lands in the market April 10. What happens if the Edge is dropped? Will those screen slivers become more useful?
In the end here's where the Edge S6 story begins and ends in the marketplace: "Hey, that screen looks cool. $120 more? Sure." End of story.
I'm even willing to bet the Galaxy S6 Edge will outsell the S6. I'm not sure the premium is worth it exactly, but that fancy screen doesn't won't run you that much more. Say you get 10 wows from friends. You'd probably pay $10 a pop to look good in front of your friends. That's what the S6 Edge is about. We'll figure out functionality later---or not.
Here's a look at how to configure the S6 Edge.

| Image 1 of 8

The Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge has its own icon in the settings so you can set up everything from colors attached to contacts, RSS feeds and other notifications that may be useful.

Edge doesn't do notifications on both sides so you'll have to pick left or right.

Notifications for the Edge are narrowed down to a selection of RSS feeds from content providers.

Looking for special apps that take advantage of the Edge screen? Good luck. It's early, but there isn't much beyond what Samsung already preset.

The Galaxy S6 Edge has settings to include people, various notifications and lighting.

Perhaps the most useful notification feature in the Edge is the ability to color code rings using the side screen. That way you know who's calling at a glance.

The Edge screen allows you to use the notification bar for email, messages and calls. The email would likely overload that small piece of screen real estate.

At launch, the Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge has a lot of potential use cases, but nothing that would resemble a killer application. The Edge could make a handy bedside clock though.
