http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675865/s/44fb1607/sc/15/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Csamsung0Egalaxy0Es60Eedge0Evs0Enote0Eedge0Ewhich0Ecurved0Edisplay0Eis0Ebest0Efor0Eyou0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge vs Note Edge: Which curved display is best for you?
I couldn't decide which was best for me so on Friday I ordered both the Galaxy S6 Edge and HTC One M9.
I've had the S6 Edge for a day and while I work on my full review I thought readers might appreciate a quick rundown of how the Galaxy S6 Edge is different than the Galaxy Note Edge.
If you are looking for all of the great secondary screen functions found on the Galaxy Note Edge, then understand most are not available on the Galaxy S6 Edge.
The only reason to spend the extra $100 on the S6 Edge over the S6 is if you prefer the unique design. The extra functions of the Galaxy S6 Edge are limited primarily to ways to view limited information and the edge is not as useful as the display found on the Note Edge.
Here is how the Galaxy S6 Edge stacks up to the Galaxy Note Edge, in terms of specs:
Both of these unique Samsung phones have a special settings area titled Edge Screen. Here is the functionality present on each device.
Galaxy Note Edge
Galaxy S6 Edge:
The Note Edge provides a more interactive experience that is especially useful for launching your favorite apps, controlling music while you do other things on your phone, accessing some cool tools, and having the camera capture controls moved out of the main viewfinder and onto the edge.
The Galaxy S6 Edge information panels are only available when the display is off and you have to make a back and forth swipe motion to activate. The ability to contact people quickly is available when the device is in use, accessed by swiping in from the light gray tab.
The Galaxy S6 Edge looks amazing and if you are a person who likes cool designs and wants to be different, then the $100 may be worth it to you. The sides are a bit sharper than the Galaxy S6 and you do notice text you are reading gets a bit strange along the edges as it curves down away from you. ZDNet's Adrian Kingsley-Hughes posted a comparison of the Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge that you should read if you are trying to decide between these two.
The Galaxy Note Edge is a device to consider if you want something with a unique design that is also very functional. I personally prefer it over the Note 4, but don't use the S Pen enough to justify the larger device. Then again, with microSD storage expansion and a removable battery, the Note series may appeal more to the road warrior.
It's too early for me to say whether or not I am keeping the Galaxy S6 Edge, but I am having a blast using the latest and greatest from Samsung. BTW, I loved the emerald green one I saw in Spain, but that is not coming to the US anytime soon. I bought the black sapphire one, not realizing this meant in most well-lit areas the phone is navy blue and not black. As a huge fan of this color I am very pleased with my color selection.
Related ZDNet Galaxy S6 coverage
