http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675706/s/45468dba/sc/28/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Cpictures0Ceach0Eof0Ethese0Esocial0Enetworks0Epays0Eyou0Eto0Epost0Econtent0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Each of these social networks pays you to post content
| Image 1 of 7

Social networks are getting wise to the fact that users would like to be rewarded for their original content, social shares and hard work. Donating to charity, making peer to peer payments or just raking in the cash, content creation is now a money making activity – if you choose the right social network that pays you for your posts.

8, in beta, is a content sharing site for photos and videos. the site says says that it is: “a digital home that brings back the rights of its citizens”. Created so “communities of people can be empowered to make positive change by sharing the wealth in a system where content creators gain the bulk of the revenue.”
From May 2015 you will be able to accept ads, determine their placement (pre, mid or post video roll). You will receive 80 percent of ad revenue directly to PayPal or have the option to donate to your chosen charity.
(Image: 8 Enterprises)

The Bubblews revenue model pays the user depending on their network. It was built on the notion of “being fair”. It compensates users based on their social actions such as views, shares, likes and comments and pays through PayPal. One difference to other networks are that hashtags are “+” signs and you refer to other users with “&” not “@”
You can post up to 10 posts in a 24 hour period. Posts can be shared around the world, outside of the network. You can redeem when the balance in your bank hits $50.
(Image: Bubblews)

Tsu shares 90 percent of revenue with its users using the infinite thirds principle of revenue distribution. You can only join Tsu if you know the invite code from another user (usually the @username). It gained 1 million users in just over a month and has adjusted its processes to stamp out spammers and copyright infringements.
Post visiblity is friends only or public. Friends are limited to 5000 per user. Users can only share 12 posts per day. Royalty payment is by cheque or PayPal if outside of the US.
(Image: Tsu)

3Tags shares 90 percent of revenue it earns with its users. Post content and engage with the community behind each tag. You do not need an invite code to use the site. Tag content with up to three tags, search on tags and engage in discussions with the community.
Tag moderators remove unnecessary tags from posts. 3Tags content surfaces on Google (Tsu posts are behind a login screen) - so it is more likely your posts will be seen by search engines.
(Image: 3Tags)

Bitlanders aims to capture and engage users and will pay its users to blend gaming with social. The Buzzscore rewards users for their content and activity. As your Buzzscore increases, your Bitcoin earnings increase.
You can spend your Bitcoin in the online shop, where you can shop for accessories. You can also spend your earnings on e-gift cards which can be used at other online retailers.
The platform is aimed at teens who are encouraged to become ambassadors for online social communications at the platform.
(Image: Bitlanders)

Newslines is a crowdsourced news search engine which aims to organise the world’s news. Contributors earn 50 percent shares of ad revenues for writing and editing original summaries based on current or past news events.
A portfolio of long-term content can build income for the user over years to come. Referring friends brings you five percent of their income down to three levels.
Each post can include news, performances, interviews, and life events such as births, deaths and marriages. The summaries are compiled into news timelines (“Newslines”) that can then be sorted and filtered by the reader.
(Image: Newslines)

Social networks are getting wise to the fact that users would like to be rewarded for their original content, social shares and hard work. Donating to charity, making peer to peer payments or just raking in the cash, content creation is now a money making activity – if you choose the right social network that pays you for your posts.
