http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675706/s/44e90d34/sc/23/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Chiris0Ewearable0Efor0Eeverything0Euses0Egestures0Eto0Etrack0Eyour0Elife0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
HIRIS wearable for everything, uses gestures to track your life
Circle Garage, an Italian startup based in Genova, Italy has developed the multi-function wearable HIRIS. The company says it is the first gesture-controlled wearable that works on almost any app and adopts to any lifestyle.
Its recent Indiegogo campaign has received over $84,000 in funding. The HIRIS claims to be different from other wearables due to its gesture control and tracking functions.
The product apparently works on almost any application - from health monitoring, sports and fitness, home control and gaming, through to flying your drone with air touch and gesture commands.
With one flick of the wrist, or other part of your body, HIRIS allows you to create a connected environment tailored to any need you have. You can monitor your technique, and wellbeing, capturing your every movement, or monitoring precise performance metrics.

The Italian designed wearable computer is compatible with GoPro, Spotify and Philips Hue, and will soon work with Nest Thermostat and IFTTT. With gesture control you can capture and record surfing highlights on your GoPro by waving your hand.

With Philips Hue you can dim the lights and set the mood with simple motion-controlled gesture. With Spotify, you can browse playlists, change the song, and adjust volume with a flick of the wrist.
Wearables? Bet your shirt on it: Smart garments are about to take off
Shipping as early as September 2015, HIRIS will be using its Indiegogo funding for mass production in order to bring HIRIS to general availability.
HIRIS will allow you to remotely set the temperature and learns your preferred comfort setting based on tracking daily activities with Nest Thermostat and IFTTT. You can even wave at the screen to advance slides in your presentation deck.
"To us, HIRIS is more than a wellness companion, but a new key with the capability to help us manage tasks with simple gestures and commands," said founder and inventor, Marco Gaudina.
"We are very excited to move into the next phase and begin preparing for mass production so that we can bring HIRIS to the masses."
Related items:

