http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675705/s/44d47328/sc/28/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Cpromat0E20A150Ewhere0Eerp0Emeets0Ethe0Eshop0Efloor0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
The technology that powers business: Where's the innovation?
Tuesday, I attended the Promat 2015 and Automate 2015 events at Chicago's McCormick Center. The former is a gathering of equipment providers and suppliers involved in the handling and movement of goods. The latter is an engineering showcase full of robotic and other mechanized business automation technology. If you're like the characters on The Big Bang Theory - this is your nirvana.
With me was Thomas Ryan. Tom is a former Gartner analyst and an expert on warehouse, transportation and logistics technologies. Perusing the exhibition floor with Tom was interesting in that he not only knew many of the vendors but also some of the people working the booths. We walked the miles of aisles in the two exhibition halls. Tom provided the real world shop floor commentary while I mused on how these technologies need to connect to ERP and back office software.
Afterwards, we compared notes.
Here are our observations:
Hits
Both of us have attended this show in prior years. As someone who was an economics teaching assistant in college, it makes me feel good to see so many attendees at this event. Why? These individuals are shopping for capital equipment that will significantly improve the productivity of their firm. Productivity increases when a business can get more revenue with less labor cost. Productivity gains occur when businesses are able to automate manual processes, streamline processes, reduce defects, etc.
Enterprise software: The big trends and why they matter
The applications that run businesses are undergoing profound changes, although there's also a lot of inertia in the system. We examine some of the key trends — including cloud adoption, mobility, consumerisation and business analytics — that are shaping tomorrow's enterprise software landscape.
What the attendees are looking for at this show is technology that will fill orders more rapidly and accurately. They seek technology that will package and ship goods more cost-effectively. If it could be picked, sorted, moved, stocked, manipulated, welded, packed, inspected, etc. there was an exhibitor who could help a business improve its productivity.
In the last year, I have seen how some US manufacturers have taken back manufacturing from low-cost countries and returned it to the United States. The way they have achieved this is through better utilization of manufacturing technologies, better integration between machine tools and improved worker productivity.
Removing non-value-added or low-value-added activities from manufacturing and distribution processes is key to reducing total product cost, improving customer satisfaction and improving bottom-line business results. A huge opportunity I've seen is the elimination of needless handling and re-handling of goods. That's what makes a show like Promat interesting.
Many of the technologies on display at Promat (e.g., fork trucks, material handling systems, warehouse and transportation systems, etc.) have been around for some time. However, there are number of incremental innovations that have occurred in many of these mature products (e.g., battery technology). There were even some significant innovations on display as well (e.g., drone usage for monitoring inventory in outdoor settings and in monitoring trailer locations in large distribution center truck yards).

Personally, I was pleased to see the following technologies on display:


Misses
Bottom line:
The bottom line for us both is that the show provided encouraging anecdotal evidence that manufacturing and distribution companies are shopping again for technologies to help improve their supply chain and manufacturing execution efficiencies. That is a positive for the economy.
Much of the innovation on display appeared to be linear extensions or improvements of pre-existing technologies. Tom and I were hungry to see more breakthrough innovations but they weren't as evident.
