http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675705/s/442ff336/sc/46/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Cintacct0Euser0Econference0Eoffers0Eclear0Eadvantages0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Intacct: User conference offers clear advantages
I genuinely enjoy going to events where upwardly trending (think “growing”) vendors are involved. I get no joy in writing soon-to-be obituaries for vendors whose time has come and gone. Intacct, a cloud financial/accounting software vendor, is one of those upwardly trending firms.
Intacct Background
Intacct is a Bay Area firm more often seen in competitive software evaluations against NetSuite, FinancialForce and others. Their products are clearly oriented around the mid-market. They possess a multi-tenant solution set that’s built around a proprietary PaaS (platform-as-a-service). The company has approximately 8,500 customers.
Intacct targets several vertical sectors — notably not-for-profits, software firms and a couple of others. More verticals are being targeted. The software sector is a noteworthy vertical as many of their customers have experienced rapid and considerable growth. But, rather than outgrow the Intacct solution, Intacct has continued to enhance the core financial, managerial and accounting functionality within its suite.
Cloud Computing: Moving to IaaS
Infrastructure as a Service providers make a very compelling argument for businesses to stop running their own data centers and simply purchase server capacity on-demand and scale up and down as needed. This is our deep dive on IaaS strategy and best practices
Oh, and one more background point: about 65 percent of Intacct’s customers are also users of salesforce.com’s CRM (customer relationship management) solution.
This week’s Intacct Advantage conference
For decades I’ve recommended that software buyers attend the user conferences of any vendors that they might seriously consider. At a user conference, you can assess:
Analysts look at a number of the same factors. To us, it’s a great validation experience for our research. It’s like doing due diligence but with scale.
So, when Intacct opened up its user conference to analysts (this was the first year they did so), I jumped at the chance. Here’s what I experienced:
Next Year’s Conference
For next years, Intacct Advantage event, I’d recommend to Intacct management that they:
Well, let’s see what the next year brings.
Disclosure: Intacct covered my travel expenses to their conference.
