http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675708/s/442fe655/sc/28/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Ceggcyte0Ethe0Ewebserver0Eyou0Ecan0Eput0Ein0Eyour0Epocket0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Eggcyte: the webserver you can put in your pocket

Apple's extortionate iOS storage pricing has created a market for Wi-Fi accessible add-on storage. But once you have a network, storage and a CPU, why stop there?
Which is what the folks at Eggcyte asked themselves a few years ago. Their answer: the Egg, a pocket-size web-server, network storage and touchscreen computer.
The Egg is roughly half the size of a smartphone. It uses an Intel Atom processor and a 2.4" - 320 x 240 pixel color screen to run the Linux-based Tizen OS.
Tizen was originally developed at Intel before Samsung took it over. And thankfully, unlike real eggs, the Egg is much flatter.
I spoke to Barry Solomon, Eggcyte's marketing and business development exec, about the Egg.
The Egg can expand the storage on your phone or camera. There's actually a webserver on the egg with a unique domain name that each user can set. It also has a self-configuring Wi-Fi so you can easily hook it up to your home router, as well as a USB port for direct connection.
There are no monthly fees. You can store, share and secure your data without relying on cloud services. Your personal content is more secure because you decide what to put on it and who to expose it to.
The Egg weighs a few ounces, supports up to 256GB of storage capacity and is expected to offer 14-16 hours of battery life. Their Kickstarter campaign is up now.
Six Clicks: The best personal and SMB cloud-storage services
Moore's Law is still working its magic. The doubling of transistor counts every 18-24 months keeps enabling surprising devices like the Egg.
The Egg's ambitions - storage, web and computer server - may make it too complicated for civilians. But the simplicity of a personally controlled online presence - unlike Facebook, with its cryptic security settings - should attract those tired of being sold to with every click.
Here's hoping the Egg - or something like it - finally breaks down Facebook's walled garden and democratizes the web.
Comments welcome, as always. Would you use a personal webserver, and why or why not?
