http://www.huffingtonpost.com/vanessa-thompson/can-pond-scum-save-the-wo_b_6832556.html
Can Pond Scum Save the World?
Carbon dioxide levels are rising. Air quality is getting worse. Whole species are disappearing forever. Some environmentalists say we are on our way to our own extinction. Is there a solution that will save humanity? Could our salvation be pond scum?
Green pond scum is microalgae or, more scientifically, unicellular chlorophyta is responsible for about half of the earth's oxygen. It is classified in the Protist Kingdom along with slime molds and some of those disgusting things you pray are not on your week-old bread. Microalgae can now be turned into car fuel through hydrothermal liquifaction -- a high pressure and high temperature process that simulates the conditions in the deep earth that made ancient plants into the fossil oil we are now using as fuel.
When I went to lunch with Dr. Jonathan Trent, a NASA scientist working on what are called "life-support" systems for space exploration, I learned about his OMEGA project that uses microalgae as part of a life-support system for Spaceship Earth.
"Algae are the fastest growing plants on the planet" Dr. Jonathan Trent gushed.
They feed on sunlight, water, a bit of fertilizer and carbon dioxide and lucky for us they give off oxygen as a waste product. Micro algae generate half of the oxygen we breath. If algae are made into car fuel, the carbon dioxide that cars expel is balanced by the carbon dioxide the algae used, which means the process can be carbon-neutral. Algae can grow in the wastewater (sewage) from our cities.
I asked Dr. Trent why algae aren't currently being used to produce car fuel and clean sewage water. He said:
Algae fuel costs more to produce than people are currently willing to pay, and growing algae in ponds on land competes with agriculture. The good news is that the OMEGA system brings the costs of fuels down and produces not only fuel, but also electricity, heat, clean water and food, and it doesn't compete with agriculture.
He looked out of the restaurant window onto a bustling street just steps from California's spectacular Monterey Bay.
The OMEGA is intended to float offshore in protected bays near coastal cities. The full-scale system will look like a high-tech marina with floating infrastructure covered in solar panels and long flexible plastic tubes containing wastewater and freshwater green algae, moving with the waves. The algae feed on the nutrients in the sewage and remove many of the toxins and different parts of the algae culture are harvested each day to make biofuels. If an OMEGA was used in San Francisco Bay, it would take up less than 1 percent of the Bay and it would produce at least 2 million gallons of fuel annually or about 20 percent of the diesel San Francisco's fleet of municipal vehicles consume. The water from the algae cultures is not released into the ocean, but further treated with a process developed by NASA for space exploration that makes it clean enough to drink. On the surface, the OMEGA system transforms solar energy into electricity and heat from solar panels and into biofuels from the algae.
In some locations low-speed wind turbines and floating breakwaters also collect energy. Below the surface the OMEGA system supports aquaculture with cages or nets that would grow oysters, mussels, abalone, crabs or other shellfish. The OMEGA system produces energy, clean water and food, without using land. Imagine opening up the frontier just off our coasts!
Technology, lifestyle and the environment have changed considerably in the last five decades. Fifty years ago, people would have thought you were crazy if you insisted we would all be walking around with hand-held phones, powering our homes with solar panels, recycling our packaging and cleaning exhaust with catalytic converters. These are just a few of the many green technologies that have been invented by people who took action and believed they could make a difference in the global crisis. With results like that, we cannot assume that we will die fifty years from now because of Climate Change. We do not know the solutions of the future, but there is hope if we invest in new technologies to build that future.
We have seen remarkable progress on green tech in just the last few decades. As recently as the 1970's, DDT, a deadly pesticide, had killed most of the otter and pelican populations. Otters, pelicans and many other species were on the verge of extinction. Because of numerous protests from citizens and politicians all over the United States, DDT was banned and the otter and pelican population numbers soared. Today, their populations have grown so much that it is hard to imagine they were on the verge of extinction.
This turnaround would have not occurred if people had left the problem for other people to solve. If we continue to think fatalistically, we will create that fatal ending. However, if we are open-minded and inventive, we will create a wonderfully outrageous future that is connected with nature.
If we want to live in a safe and sustainable world, we have to open our minds because the answers are all around us, perhaps even in pond scum.
Follow HuffPost Teen on Twitter | Instagram | Tumblr | Pheed |
More on HuffPost:
"Curiosity is such a powerful force. Without it, we wouldn't be who we are today." -- Clara Ma At only 15 years old, Clara Ma has earned her place in NASA history as the teen who named the "Curiosity" Mars rover. When she was in the 6th grade, Clara wrote an essay about why the rover should be called "Curiosity": "Curiosity is an everlasting flame that burns in everyone's mind. It makes me get out of bed in the morning and wonder what surprises life will throw at me that day. Curiosity is such a powerful force. Without it, we wouldn't be who we are today. Curiosity is the passion that drives us through our everyday lives. We have become explorers and scientists with our need to ask questions and to wonder." Her entry won. In addition to choosing it's name, Clara got to see the rover being built, and signed the body before it began its travels.
"I don't want to follow what other people expect me to be doing. I want to follow me." -- Emma Emma is not your average ballerina. Her shoulders are a little wide, and she is a little too tall. However, that does not stop her from enjoying the sport she loves. Check out more inspiring girls like Emma on Clean & Clear's "See The Real Me" Youtube page.
"Life is so fragile, with ups and downs just like a bird in flight. We need to protect that bird in all of us." -- Olivia Bouler Olivia Bouler loves birds. In the aftermath of the Gulf tragedy, the ornithology-loving teenager raised 100,00 dollars for the Audobon Society by selling photos of her beloved creatures. Olivia clearly loves the animals not just for what they are, but for what they can teach us about ourselves.
"If we want to be game-changers, we need to be ok with the possibility of failure." -- Niha Jain Everyone fails at one point or another in their lives. However, it can be a painful, shameful experience, one that many people try to forget or move away from. However, Harvard student Niha Jain and her friend Tara Suri experienced a major failure in their late teen years, and used that experience to make themselves better and stronger in the long run. In 2010, Niha and Tara attempted to create a startup focused on teaching women in India to support themselves financially. However, the girls failed miserably. But that failure only fueled their fire to work harder, and become more dedicated to their passion for underserved women. Sometimes the hardest thing is to admit when you are not perfect, but teens like Niha and Tara show us that failure is not only okay, but encouraged.
"Whatever happened yesterday is yesterday. Today, this moment, right now, I can do something different." -- Liz Murray Liz Murray's upbringing was tumultuous, to say the least. She found herself homeless at age 15, with HIV-positive parents that were addicted to drugs. Liz's story might not be your run-of-the-mill tale of adolescence, but she did have love, support and the drive to make a better life for herself. She watched her drug-addicted parents struggle to be better people for her and her sister, and Liz promised herself that she would honor their drive by choosing a different path for her life. Liz achieved her dreams when she was accepted to Harvard University, and wrote a compelling memoir about her story. Read more about Liz's compelling life here.
"Don't be afraid to show who you are. Don't let them tell you that you can't, when you know that you CAN. And you want to." – Jasmine Jasmine wakes up at 5am every morning. After her academic classes, she works with machines and takes shop classes. She loves what she does, and has overcome criticism from people who believed women do not belong in a male-centered industry. Check out more inspiring girls like Jasmine on Clean & Clear's "See The Real Me" Youtube page.
"Nobody's photoshopped in real life." -- Julia Bluhm While many 14 year old girls look at the glossy pages of magazines and wish they look more like the models, Julia Bluhm wished the models looked more like her. The young activist led a protest against Seventeen magazine for their use of photoshop. Julia's efforts paid off -- Seventeen announced the launch of the Body Peace Treaty in response to the teen.
"Us teenagers are at the perfect crossroads of childish naivete and adult realism -- we still believe that problems can be solved, and now we also have the tools and knowledge to solve them." -- Adora Svitak Although Adora has been described as a "child prodigy," her insecurities and goals are the same as any other teen's. In her TED talk, pictured, Adora explains why age has nothing to do with the ability to succeed.
"'Pretty' is just another word. There are so many adjectives to describe ourselves with that we shouldn't be so focused on just one." -- Alexis Jane Torre As many of us know, high school can be a difficult time when it comes to self-confidence. For someone like Alexis Jane Torre, who suffers from a skin condition called vitiligo, it has the potential to be downright torturous. However, Alexis did not let her disease get the better of her. As an avid blogger for the Huffington Post, the now-college student talks about her struggles with beauty, and how she has learned to embrace who she is.
