http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-32314950#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa
Google defends its business as EU sanctions loom
At a press conference at 1100 BST today, it is expected that the European Union's competition commissioner, Margrethe Vestager, will outline the case against Google's dominant position in the search market.
It is likely to allege that the technology firm uses that position to direct search traffic to its own businesses, such as Google Shopping.
Some people call that market abuse, a claim Google firmly denies.
Although this is a significant moment, as with anything to do with the European Union, it is another stage in a slow process which is likely to take a number of years to resolve.
I first reported on the launch of the investigation back in 2010 before the last general election.
At that stage, Google wanted to resolve the issue by offering remedies on how it ordered search results.
It had seen how Microsoft had become bogged down in years of competition warfare with the European Union over how it "bundled" its products, and ended up being fined £1.5bn anyway.
Google's proposal was to make links to rival services much more prominent.
But with a legion of critics within European governments and across media and technology businesses, each attempt failed.
The technology campaigning organisation, ICOMP, said of expected developments: "A statement of objections represents a formal finding by the Commission that Google is dominant and that its actions have caused harm to businesses and consumers in Europe.
"If confirmed, this is an important step towards a successful return to a fair and competitive online marketplace that will be welcomed by our members."
Unsurprisingly, Google does not concur. And in a leaked internal memo to "Googlers", it lays out its case.
At its simplest, Google says that "with competition just a click away", the notion of dominance in technology markets is different from, say, dominance in the energy market.
It is easy for consumers to use other search services such as Bing and DuckDuckGo as well as social media platforms Facebook and Twitter.
Search is also changing rapidly and is not itself the essential powerhouse of commercial success it used to be.
Google says that on mobile phones for example, seven out of every eight minutes is spent within apps, rendering mobile search a much less important function.
This, of course, is a threat to part of Google's business model as consumers use mobile as their digital entry point of choice.
In shopping, which is expected to be the focus of the European Commission's announcement today, Google says that eBay and Amazon are much more powerful online than Google Shopping, for example.
It is certainly true that Google is dominant in search, with more than a 90% share of the market across Europe.
Google claims that is because it offers the best service which is most relevant for us, the consumers, who carry out three billion searches every day.
Detractors say it has used its position to skew the market in its favour.
ICOMP, which is no fan of Google and lists arch-rival Microsoft as one of its supporters, puts the threat like this: "Google stands accused of manipulating its search results to systematically favour its own services and demote or exclude those of its rivals, thereby diverting vast quantities of traffic and revenues away from competitors and to its own growing stable of competing services."
It says that Google has "all but eradicated" the price comparison web market and is embarked on a similar course on travel search and financial price comparison.
Because consumers think we're better, Google might say. It will be for the EC to decide if its dominance goes too far.
From Kamal Ahmed @bbckamal
And here's Google's case - Tech giant defends its business as EU sanctions loom http://t.co/N8e5m7XEuv My Business Blog @BBCNews #google
Google facing possible anti-trust action: BBC News - EU set to announce Google "statement of objections" http://t.co/rMKaazbnlY
RT @JonnyMaitland: @bbckamal @Ruaridhnicoll Act 1 Scene 3, 15-ish mins in. (Usually gets a small laugh, too: not always the case with eco…
Content from Twitter. Learn more about content from Twitter.
The Liberal Democrats pledge to spend more on education in England than the other major parties if they win the general election, as they launch their manifesto.
What is it really like to work at McDonald's?
What do you remember of past campaigns?
The Indian women declaring their love for traditional dress
How 30 years of LA gang bloodshed came to an end
How Nepal protects its Royal Bengal tigers
Russian language Siri accused of homophobia
Marvin Hagler reminiscences about his fight with Tommy Hearns
The many faces of a famous president
Keeping an eye on migrant workers
