http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675654/s/4561f9cb/sc/28/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Ctwitter0Edrives0Eexpansion0Ein0Elatin0Eamerica0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Twitter drives expansion in Latin America
A series of recent executive announcements at Twitter in Latin America have signaled the company's plans to further invest in the region, where some of its most important markets are located.
The main personnel change in the region is the promotion of Brazil director-general Guilherme Ribenboim to the role of vice president for Latin America. Ribenboim has led Twitter's Brazilian operations since the company launched its first office in the country in 2012.
As well as continuing to lead the firm's business in Brazil, Ribenboim will also be accountable for its Mexico and Colombia operations and some other additional markets that are currently supported by local strategic partners.
In addition, some other key Twitter executives in Brazil have taken up different roles to reflect the company's sharpened focus on the region, where it has been investing heavily in the last few yearsand recruiting core skills in areas such as branding, product marketing and agency relations.

Another Twitter executive that originally started out with a Brazil remit has taken up a regional role. As media director, Carlos Moreira Jr has been focusing on developing partnerships with the media and influencers in Latin America in areas such as TV, music, sport, politics and journalism.
Colombia is among Twitter's top 20 markets and Mexico ranks among the 10 most important countries for the company, while Brazil sits among the top five. In December, the company reported an increase of 25,6 percent for its Brazilian user base - the best growth rate in the country since 2010.
The exponential growth in Brazil during 2014 was driven primarily by last year's World Cup and the presidential elections. The events boosted business development as the company grew closer to TV broadcasters, which promote the social network during programmes.
