http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675660/s/4563e6dd/sc/15/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Cmicrosoft0Edelivers0Eios0Eandroid0Eversions0Eof0Edelve0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Microsoft delivers iOS, Android versions of Delve
Microsoft has made native mobile versions of its Delve search and presentation app available for Android phones, Android wear devices and iPhones.
Delve, codenamed "Oslo," is Microsoft's Flipboard-like experience for Office 365 business users.
Delve presents in card-like form information from Exchange, OneDrive for Business, SharePoint Online and Yammer enterprise-social networking components. Over the coming months Delve will be adding more content sources, including email attachments, OneNote and Skype for Business.
Starting today, April 14, the mobile iOS and Android versions of Delve will be available for download from the Apple and Google Play stores. Initially, they are available for users in the U.S., Ireland and Norway, but availability will expand to "all supported markets in the coming weeks."
Delve mobile will run on iOS 8.0 and above and Android 4.4 and above. The new mobile app versions of Delve can notify users about updates to files with which they are interacting. The Delve team has pledged to update the functionality of both Delve mobile apps and Delve Web-based versions on a monthly basis.
Cost breakdown toolkit: Google Apps vs. Office 365
What about Windows Phone? Microsoft officials said they are developing a Universal app for Windows and "expect to provide more information soon."
Microsoft also announced updates to Office 365, including updates to people-based search that are designed to make it easier for users to find, connect and collaborate. The new profile pages in Delve have been updated to work on screen sizes from four inches to the largest displays. The new profile pages display each person's organizational structure.
Microsoft has introduced multiple ways to get to an individual's profile: Through a Delve people search, clicking that person's name in OneDrive for Business or Outlook Web App, clicking "About me" and more.
Microsoft also has introduced a new Blog section on profile pages. The new blogging tool built into Delve is the first to use the "authoring canvas," which is a new page-authoring platform for Office 365. In the future, the canvas will allow users to create other kinds of Office 365 pages, including those for individual profiles, Office 365 groups and future "NextGen Portals," like the coming Knowledge Management portal.
The new Blog home page and authoring canvas platform are replacing the My Site blog in SharePoint. Previous blog posts created within SharePoint Online Sites will be accessible from the new Blog page, however, according to Microsoft officials.
The new profile changes are beginning to roll out to Office 365 customers in the First Release program today. They'll roll out more broadly "in the coming months."
