http://techrepublic.com.feedsportal.com/c/35463/f/670841/s/4560fa65/sc/15/l/0L0Stechrepublic0N0Carticle0C80Etwitter0Eaccounts0Eto0Ekeep0Eyou0Eup0Eto0Edate0Eon0Evirtual0Ereality0C0Tftag0FRSS56d97e7/story01.htm
8 Twitter accounts to keep you up to date on virtual reality
The speed at which virtual reality is moving makes it a challenge to keep up. One option is to add a VR presence to your Twitter feed by following both people and organizations doing interesting things from news, to commentary, to multimedia from various events.
Here are 8 Twitter accounts relating virtual reality to follow.
A good source for new and different uses of VR is University of Southern California's Institute for Creative Technologies. They tweet about work they're doing, interesting stories about VR, and recently, quite a bit about the role VR is playing in therapy.

Imagine the internet is a place and web pages are portals. JanusVR dips into this idea -- an "immersive, collaborative, multi-dimensional internet" inspired by Neal Stephenson's novel Snow Crash. JanusVR doesn't tweet much (the retweets are actually more helpful in terms of seeing examples of JanusVR), so it's low commitment on your end, but it's worth keeping an eye on the very early work of bringing the internet to VR, or vice versa.

Jaunt specializes in cinematic VR experiences, and because of that, they tend to tweet about VR innovation and storytelling.

Oculus is, indeed, the big gorilla in the room right now. Their Twitter account is worth following as they not only tweet out their latest announcements, but pics and videos of games and demos, and of course, happenings from conferences or wherever they are.

For some contrast, Helen Papagiannis, who is a PhD and leading expert in augmented reality, tweets about AR and from time to time, the intersections between AR and VR.

The Silicon Valley Virtual Reality MeetUp group is one of the bigger ones in the country, and even has its own conference this May. If you can't catch one of the meetings, you can keep up via Twitter.

Kent Bye hosts the podcast Voices of VR. It's been running for about a year and features various people in the industry talking not just about VR for gaming, but also for business and recent developments. Bye tweets about the podcast, conferences, and also other pieces of VR news and analysis.

Tony Parisi has been working in virtual reality and 3D computer software for a few decades, but his tweets tend to be more forward-looking.

