http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675663/s/4561f6e6/sc/15/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Cmarketo0Efunnels0Edigital0Eadvertising0Echannels0Einto0Esingle0Esoftware0Eplatform0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Marketo funnels digital advertising channels into software platform
Marketo is streamlining its digital marketing portfolio into a single software platform, aiming to serve as centralized hub for launching succinct online campaigns.
The overarching goal is to enable two-way conversations between consumers and brands that are more mindful of those consumers' preferences and previous interactions.
Thus, funneling all of Marketo's engagement and automation campaigns deployed through multiple channels (email, social media, mobile apps and other digital ads) through a single touch point means to both strengthen a brand's voice as well as its sincerity with the consumer.

Marketo partners with Acxiom, launches customer engagement platform
Unveiled amid Marketo's annual Marketing Nation Summit in San Francisco on Tuesday, the first of the major components here bolsters campaigns received on smartphones and tablets through the Marketo Mobile Engagement, tailored with personalized push messaging and in-app notifications based on a customer's wishes.
The second is Marketo Ad Bridge, designed to connect online advertising efforts stemming from the overall engagement marketing strategy in an effort to pinpoint the most ideal and receptive demographics in the long run.
Although an exact date has not been revealed yet, these products are scheduled to ship during the second quarter.
Marketo most recently linked its engagement platform with Google AdWords and Google Analytics products in an effort to make marketing campaigns more measurable.
The San Mateo, Calif.-based company asserted at the time that the Google integration addresses key problems commonly facing digital marketers -- namely accurately tracking ad spend.
Last year's event garnered a great deal of attention (not to mention a substantial physical security presence) in no small part to its headline keynote speaker, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.
Clinton, who recently weathered heavy criticism about her own data-related policies (especially over her email) spoke over the course of less than half an hour how about how digital marketing can drive innovation and the role it plays in promoting both economic prosperity as well as diplomacy.
Just a little over a year ago, the occasion also marked one of the numerous times Clinton remained coy about her intentions for a U.S. presidential bid.
The former Senator confirmed her 2016 campaign for the Oval Office via social media this past Sunday.
