http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675663/s/455aeb04/sc/15/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Cgoogle0Ecloud0Enetworking0Eexpands0Egeographical0Efootprint0Eadds0Ecarriers0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Google Cloud Networking expands geographical footprint, adds carriers
Google's cloud department is kicking off the week with a bevy of tweaks and additions.
Google's Tel Aviv Campus set for overhaul that leaves startups' future under a cloud
While they might look small in comparison to Amazon Web Services's launch into machine learning among other debuts last week, the additions for Google Cloud Networking announced on Monday could garner many more enterprise customers with multiple offices around the world.
Google Cloud Networking is expanding load balancing solutions to 12 more presence points worldwide in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago, Seattle, Dallas, Miami, London, Paris, Stockholm, Munich, Madrid and Lisbon.
That makes for more than 70 points of presence across 33 countries.
"Today's connected user is accustomed to fast and responsive application services, be they web services accessed from a browser or apps on a mobile device," wrote Morgan Dollard, who leads product management for Google Cloud Networking, in a blog post on Monday.
Dollard further emphasized "workloads running on Google Cloud Platform are closer in proximity to your users who are making service requests from all over the globe."
Dollard noted that these four development tackle two of the Internet giant's technical strategy goals, the first of which was firming up that global footprint.
The second goal, Dollard noted, is bolstering support for running mission-critical workloads via on-premises infrastructures while still connecting to Google's network with guaranteed encryption.
The Mountain View, Calif.-headquartered company is also pushing out Google Cloud DNS into general availability trailed by a beta version of the VPN.
Furthermore, the platform will now be supported by 11 additional Carrier Interconnect service providers for linking up existing enterprise infrastructures to Google.
Google Cloud Platform most recently boosted its toolset for mobile users -- notably those on Google's own mobile operating system, Android.
In March, Google trotted out a mobile dashboard promising real-time visibility and alerts about the status, health and performance for solutions running on Google App Engine or Compute Engine.
In beta for now, Cloud Console for Android is available to download via Google Play. An iOS version is promised to be in the works, but an exact release date has not been revealed yet.
