http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675666/s/4485673e/sc/24/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Cequinix0Eopens0Ethird0Esingapore0Edata0Ecenter0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Equinix opens third Singapore data center
Equinix has opened its third data center in Singapore, pushing its investment in the country where it launched its first site in 2002 to more than US$300 million.
Dubbed SG3, the new data center is the company's largest in the Asia-Pacific region spanning 385,000 square feet and is fully interconnected to its other two local facilities. Equinix invested US$53 million in the first phase of SG3, which is part of the company's global network of 103 data centers and the first of five new facilities slated for launch in the first half of 2015, said Equinix CEO Steve Smith, during the launch Wednesday. The other four are due to open in Melbourne, London, Toronto, and New York.
Designed from ground up to Equinix's specifications, the new Singapore facility boasts security features that meet the various regulatory requirements of financial services providers as well as solar panels that power its external and ancillary areas. It uses Singapore's recycled water system NEWater as a cooling agent and has been credited with the country's BCA-IDA Green Mark for Data Center. The certification assess data centers on energy and water efficiencies, as well as sustainable construction and indoor environment quality.
The building was developed by Mapletree Industrial Trust and can accommodate up to 5,000 cabinets at full capacity, of which 1,000 are available during the first phase of operations.
According to Equinix Asia-Pacific President Samuel Lee, the company currently operates 21 data centers in this region. He pointed to cloud as the most impactful among industry trends and one that is pushing organizations to view data centers as a critical asset and strategic enabler to improving productivity and gain speed to market.
Cloud and IT service providers currently contribute 25 percent of the company's overall business and is its fastest-growing segment.
Speaking at the launch, Yeoh Keat Chuan, managing director of Singapore's Economic Development Board, added that increasing cloud adoption was pushing demand for datacenter facilities. Noting that more than 50 percent of Southeast Asia's commercial carrier and carrier-neutral datacenter space was located in Singapore, Yeoh said: "By the end of 2015, we will have an extensive network of 19 submarine cable systems connecting us to key global markets, which translates into a total bandwidth of 279Tbps, which is more than double the bandwidth in 2012."
"With Equinix's ecosystem of more than 1,000 networks worldwide, of which more than 190 are directly accessible from Singapore, the SG3 facility will further enhance Singapore's status as a key connectivity hub," he said.
Orange Carriers Singapore and Datapipe were among service providers that had signed up to deploy their services on SG3.
