http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675672/s/452b8ddb/sc/15/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Ctraps0Emarketing0Eprofessionals0Eencounter0Estarting0Ecompanies0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Traps marketing professionals face when starting companies
In this edition of Software Business Crash Course, I'm going to present a cautionary tale.
Many people who work outside the sales and marketing professions tend to conflate the two disciplines. While sales and marketing professionals share the same ultimate goal -- revenue for their organization -- the two professions are actually quite different.
Sales is the easier one to understand. Sales folks call on prospects, negotiate deals, follow up to make sure needs have been met, and ultimately ring the bell that brings cash into the company.
Marketing is about creating an environment conducive to making sales. Marketing professionals define products, explore communities to identify needs, determine pricing and competitive positioning, design packaging, choose features, develop advertising, and reach out to the press to get coverage of their offerings.
To oversimplify a bit, sales people are all about the customer. Marketing people are all about the offering. And this is where marketing folks tend to go off the tracks when it comes to starting companies.
As a young, 20-something engineering-driven founder, a refugee from the product marketing ranks, it came as quite a surprise how much time I had to devote to sales. I learned quickly and spent 20 years honing my people, managerial, and sales skills, but those early first four years were quite the wake-up call. But I learned. I learned to dial for dollars, ship products, deliver services, and support my family and employees for a couple of decades.
Not everyone learns. If you're currently in marketing, let this article be your wake-up call.
I can't tell you how many marketing professionals I've met who have started (and failed at) creating companies. The core mistake these folks made is spending too much time on product and not nearly enough time on customer. In fact, at least a dozen marketing pros I know went all the way to production -- and then failed to try selling a single unit!
I'll give you three examples. The names have been changed to protect the insolent.
Henry started a mail-order clothing goods business. He had a valid hook at the time: He had done a deal with offshore vendors to mix and match clothing elements so customers could order his category of clothing and get a semi-custom fit for an off-the-rack price.
Henry field tested the order and production process, and bought about 100 articles of clothing. He hired models and did photo shoots. He had a blast doing the product shoots and designing the catalog. He described it as some of the most fun he ever had.
Quality was good, prospective customer response was excellent, and turnaround from the offshore vendors was quick enough. He rented a list of buyers of complimentary products and printed up 100,000 color catalogs.
He spent a tremendous amount of his own money to get this far. But when it came time to actually mail the catalogs, he got cold feet. He was afraid the mailings might not pan out, and didn't want to spend the money on postage. Those moldy catalogs are still in his garage and a quarter of a million dollars of Henry's own money went down the drain.

