http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675673/s/442fe72f/sc/46/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Cthe0Eenterprise0Etechnologies0Eto0Ewatch0Ein0E20A140C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
The enterprise technologies to watch in 2014
Adopting new technology in the enterprise is often an uphill battle, as summoning the resources, building the skills, and managing the risk of the cutting-edge often takes as much art as it does science. But as the tech industry reaches all-time high pace of innovation amongst a truly vast sea of new choices, enterprises are becoming acutely aware they cannot let their digital gap grow too large.
Especially in competitive industries, there's little time to worry that it's often the pioneers that have the arrows sticking out of them. In fact, due to an array of advances from ever-more agile processes to easy-to-integrate Web services, the cost of experimenting with the latest tech is at an all-time low. Never before has it been as easy or cheap to adopt new technology, other that the fact that it takes scarce resources from IT, business analysts, users, and project management resources to deliver usable business solutions, even if the tech itself is inexpensive.
This then is one of the reasons why decentralized IT that empowers users to sensibly apply the latest tech is just one of the new techniques in the arsenal of the modern CIO .
But this doesn't answer the most important question for technology planners getting ready for 2014: What are the most promising emerging enterprise technologies that are reaching a stage of must-adopt this year?
To answer that we have to look at the needs of what I've called the next-generation enterprise (NGE):
A next-generation enterprise describes an organization that is proactively moving into the present by changing how they assimilate, architect, apply, and maintain their technology solutions. The purpose: Updating and transforming their processes, structures, and business models to effectively align with and work natively in today’s networked, open, and participative digital economy. While that may be a mouthful, it also accurately describes what most organizations must do to ultimately avoid disruption in the marketplace as technology increasingly defines how our businesses engage with and provide value to the world.
Thus the purpose of important new enterprise technologies should be to significantly shift and transform how business gets done with enabling technologies that reinvents how work and enterprise output in general is achieved.
This year's list of such technologies has some long standing underdogs that have been with us for a while now (open APIs, cloud, non-relational DBs) as well as brand-new technologies with great potential for NGEs, such as the quantified enterprise, the collaborative economy, and the Internet of Things (IoT.)
Here's how this year's crop of promising enterprise technologies breaks down:
As you can see, there is a lot of very exciting things taking place in enterprise technology, often flowing straight from the consumer world. Most organizations will have their work cut out for them to focus on a third of these, and will need better and more effective ways of absorbing and metabolizing technology change. It's a significant challenge, but it's also a historic opportunity, as some of these emerging technologies are not just disruptive, but offer to usher entire industries into an early retirement (3D printing, where everyone becomes their own manufacturer for a growing set of goods comes to mind.)
So because of the growing disruptive potential of digital as it becomes a first class element of enterprise business strategy, organizations ignore focusing on these emerging yet often high impact technologies at their peril. It's much better, in my opinion, to to make time to focus on their promise.
Additional Reading:
Why CIOs should act more like venture capitalists
The digital workplace 2014: Plight and promise of today's employees
