http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675675/s/442ff359/sc/4/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Ccreating0Ea0Esoftware0Eengineering0Egroup0Ebecomes0Ekey0Eto0Eclosing0Eexperience0Egaps0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Creating a software engineering group becomes key to closing experience gaps
In our recent report Closing The Experience Gaps, my colleague Ted Schadler and I talked about two key elements to meeting customers rising expectations: 1) creating an architecture for cross-channel experience delivery and 2) developing a philosophy and culture of business agility. Given it builds on many of the concepts that we outlined in the Software Must Enhance Your Brand, I wanted to highlight the key components of the second element -- developing a philosophy and culture of business agility.
The Battle for the Soul of IT
It's no secret that the CIO is losing influence in today's corporate world as other executives gain more control over technology decision-making. Can CIOs transform themselves from infrastructure jockeys into digital symphony conductors, or will other executives become the most influential voices in tech?
Closing the experience gaps -- performance, convenience, personalization, and trust -- requires a different mindset. The shift in customers' expectations fueled by an increasing rate of technology change means that firms need to act more like a cloud-based ISV and not a traditional IT shop. This requires an agile process and continuous development from small teams spanning business, design, and technology competencies. Part of this makeover includes improving technical and design competencies. Companies like GE and Wal-Mart have dramatically up-skilled their technology teams.
At the core of this new mindset are five cultural, process and skill imperatives:
These imperatives become the cornerstones of a firm's business technology agenda.
Ted and I will also be hosting a Webinar on closing the experience gaps, Monday September 9 from 1:00 p.m.–2:00 p.m. ET. Please join us.
John McCarthy is a Vice President, Principal Analyst at Forrester Research serving CIOs. Learn more about his recent research here.
