http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675643/s/443003a1/sc/21/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Ckarma0Erecycling0Epushes0Esimplified0Ee0Ewaste0Emanagement0Ein0Eindia0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Karma Recycling pushes simplified e-waste management in India
Delhi-based Karma Recycling aims to conserve the planet's resources by focusing its efforts on systematic electronics reuse and responsible recycling by making it easy for the common man to resell or recycle their used electronic devices "scientifically".
Karma Recycling has launched an expansive e-portal offering a simple online electronics trade-in service. With a unique pricing algorithm, Karma Recycling delivers instant quotes for devices and offers free shipping. The service allows customers to trade-in over 700 models of working and non-working smartphones, tablets or laptops.
In addition to providing a household trade-in service, Karma Recycling is also a government-authorized electronic waste collector and segregator. It advises corporates nationwide on the operational impacts of the recent electronic waste legislation passed recently by the Ministry of Environment and Forests. The company quantifies the impact of legislation on internal e-waste management guidelines and policy, and helps corporate streamline their pan-India generation of e-waste into an environmentally responsible and logistically efficient process.
Founded by Akshat Ghiya and Aamir Jariwala, and commencing operations in April 2013, the company is currently accepting device trade-ins via its e-portal in six cities--New Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Jaipur, Hyderabad, and Bangalore, and plans to add six more cities by the end of 2013.
There's almost no awareness about disposal of electronic waste in India. Most individuals sell off their unused electronics to unauthorized electronics dealers or neighbourhood waste dealers, who pass it to a dump. Workers, mostly children, work on this waste in most hazardous conditions to extract whatever is valuable.
The founders believe that with more than 850 million devices currently in use, India is the second largest mobile devices market in the world, and rapidly becoming a global nerve centre for device commerce, re-commerce, and recycling.
Unfortunately, due to a lack of awareness and access to convenient services that allow safe disposal of these devices, electronics that could be refreshed, repaired, refurbished, resold, or recycled are ending up in landfills, causing pollution and depleting natural resources in an unsustainable manner.

