http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675678/s/4540ae40/sc/28/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Cwhy0Eim0Enot0Ebuying0Ean0Eapple0Ewatch0Eyet0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Why I'm not buying an Apple Watch... yet
With Apple now primed to start taking preorders for the Apple Watch, it's time for me to answer a question that I've been asked a bazillion times since the product was announced.
The best HDMI operating system sticks
There's a new kind of computer in town and it's resides on an HDMI stick that's not much bigger than a pack of gum.
"Are you (as in, me) getting an Apple Watch?"
No.
Before I go on to give you some of the thought processes I went through to come to this conclusion, I want to make a couple things clear. First, the purpose of this piece is not to try to change the mind of anyone who wants one. If the Apple Watch floats your twig, then that's cool with me.
Then there's the ultra-expensive Apple Watch Edition. That's aimed at people who have so much money - or access to borrowing so much money - that ten or twenty grand is meaningless. That's not me, so I'm ignoring it.
Finally, me not rushing out to preorder one is not the same thing as me betting against Apple and predicting that the Apple Watch will be a failure. Far from it. I think Apple will sell millions of them. But then Apple is so good at selling stuff that I'm certain it could sell an aluminum cube with an LED or two fitted in the front that did nothing. Apple is a sales and marketing juggernaut, and it never fails to amaze me just how good it is at shifting products.
But Apple won't be selling one to me, not yet at any rate. After carefully going through all the specs and sales material (including those awesome ads), and reading many of the early reviews, I've come to the conclusion that it's not for me.
Let's start with the obvious. I don't wear a wristwatch that often. I have several to choose from - from beater Casios to an Omega - and yet most of the time I'm watchless and tell the time by looking at my iPhone, or my Macs, or the clock in my car, or just eyeballing the sun and going for a guesstimate. In fact, I've noticed that even when I'm wearing a watch, I still use other means to tell the time.
The problem is that watches just don't fit in with my lifestyle. They scratch my keyboards, get all sweaty at the gym, fill up with crud when I'm doing DIY or automotive repair, and are a shock hazard when fixing broken electrical stuff. This means that when I'm wearing one I'm endlessly taking it off, putting it down somewhere, and forgetting it.
And I know that I'd do the same thing with the Apple Watch. OK, maybe not straight away, but once that period of limerence had worn off, I'd be back to taking it off. And given that it's not waterproof, and I'm uncertain as to how robust it is, I'd end up taking it off far more often than I'd take off a Casio or Omega.
In fact, the lack of serious waterproofing on the Apple Watch is, for me, probably one of the biggest dealbreakers. If you go from day to day without getting your wristwatch wet, then this won't be a problem for you, but for me, splashproofing just isn't going to be enough.
Then there's the nightly recharging. Having finally broken free of that with the iPhone by upgrading to the 6 Plus, I'm reluctant to put myself back in the position where I have to babysit a device nightly. My Casios are all solar powered and can go for months needing no attention, while the Omega just needs a quick shake every few days (and if I forget, it's no big deal). If the Apple Watch offered a few days between recharges, then I could live with that, but the nightly thing is a huge turn off.
Next there's the issue of what I'm supposed to do with the Apple Watch.
Sure, If I had a Tesla or BMW i3 I could control with one, or I frequented hotels that allowed me to unlock the doors with a flick of the wrist, I might consider throwing $350 on one (since I'd be feeling flush if I had a Tesla or BMW i3). At $350 it's a cheap car accessory. But I've got very little interest in buying a device to sit on my wrist and buzz when someone faves a photo of mine on Flickr, likes something on Facebook, pings me on Twitter, or sends me an email. But I'll be honest with you, I hate notifications. They remind me of the notifications that Outlook threw at me a decade ago when I had far fewer notifications. I've turned them off on my iPhone and iPad because there's no effective way to throttle the flurry of annoyances, and I've no interest in spending money to make my wrist buzz every few seconds.
Now I admit that when it comes to social media that I'm not the sharpest interocitor in the toolbox, but I've not found any effective way to control notifications beyond either sticking my face directly in the firehose or switching them off. Since most are nothing more than pointless annoyances designed to remind you to make use of your favorite social media site, I've just pulled the plug on them.
Bottom line, for my use case, I can't yet see a killer app for the Apple Watch.
Another reason I don't want an Apple Watch is the iPhone. The iPhone is a convergence device that does away with the need for other gadgets. It's replaced my carry-around camera, my PDA, my in-car satnav and my fitness band. Why all of a sudden do I need a second device? Other than because smartwatches are a thing and people are willing to throw money at them, I can't see a real reason. The idea of the smartwatch goes back decades to when people wore wristwatches and thought that miniaturization was the way forward, and since then they have pervaded popular culture, but they seem to me to be more a cool concept than a solid product. Apple might change that, but until smartwatches actually do things that you can't do with another device, they're just an accessory.

| Image 1 of 15

Since it was officially unveiled last fall, Apple has been answering critics arguing the iPhone maker is pushing out a brand new product category with its smart Apple Watch when there is little to no demand for such a device.
But based on even just a few examples in television and film, it looks like we've all been wanting to talk into our wrists for decades.
From the stone ages of The Flintstones to the futuristic sky cities of The Jetsons, the smartwatch has been a surprising yet underlying constant in pop culture.

The best thing since the invention of the wheel?
Sure, Fred Flintstone lived in the stone ages. But the lovable patriarch of The Flintstones was light years ahead of his time considering he maintained a steady job, a modern version of the nuclear family, a car (sort of), and yes, even a smartwatch.
It's not entirely sure what Fred did with such an advanced (and surely expensive) piece of technology (was that even a word in his era?) during his days at the quarry. But surely there are hardware and software giants out there from Cisco to Salesforce.com that would probably pitch this as an Internet-of-Things opportunity.

Compared to the prehistoric Flintstone clan, The Jetsons -- who are supposed to live in the actual future from now -- would seem like much more likely consumers for smartwatches.
I mean, these are the people who have what is likely the next generation of the Roomba in Rosie, not to mention the other ultimate tech wish list item: the flying car.
Naturally, a smartwatch does appear at least once in the series, as highlighted in a similar listicle by Gizmodo.
Making our meta dreams come true, one of Elroy's friends appears to be using his smartwatch to stream a television show: The Flintstones. Mind blown?

As one of the earliest icons of secret agent genre on screen, Get Smart's Agent 86 (more informally known as Maxwell Smart) might have been a bumbling fellow.
But Agent 99's partner-in-crime-fighting (and later life) was surprisingly tech savvy as one of the first televised characters to utilize a watch as a phone.
Now all we need is a 4G-enabled smartshoe for making calls.

But the prize for the super spy with the most toys would undoubtedly go to that dashing and debonair British Secret Service agent across the pond, James Bond.
Looking at the extensive list of gadgetry (from the reasonable to the absurd) employed by Bond since the 1950s, a watch has been a constant (if not mundane already) medium.
Some of the more eccentric spins on the smartwatch in Bond lore include the deployment of a wire garrote for weaponry (From Russia With Love), a Rolex with a razor-sharp laser beam (Never Say Never Again), and radio-enabled pen that pairs with a smartpen (Octopussy).

One of the more unique watches in James Bond's wardrobe supports a communication channel beyond simple phone calls.
That would be fax messages, as depicted in The Spy Who Loved Me. The Seiko Quartz timepiece included a built-in telex, printing out missives from MI6 on label maker-like tape.
The instant telegram is a popular plot device in the Bond franchise as a similar fax system was installed on Bond's iconic Aston Martin in GoldenEye.

When the smartwatch started to become a reality a few years back, police detective Dick Tracy became one of the most frequently cited inspirations in pop culture.
Part of that could be attributed to Tracy's preeminence in pop culture as a fedora-donning sleuth since popping up in comic strip form in the 1930s.
Millennials also became acquainted with the urban detective through the 1990 film starring Warren Beatty. McDonald's launched a tie-in promotion for the movie, doling out toy versions of Tracy's iconic watch with Happy Meals.
Tracy's version of a smart watch was actually described as a two-way radio, making it more like a Walkie-Talkie than a phone.

Star Trek is arguably one of the greatest drawing boards in the history of pop culture for gadgets that have made the leap into the real world, from Motorola's Communicator-inspired Razr flip phone to the iPad. (Even the Enterprise's bridge in the 2009 reboot film resembles an Apple Store.)
While the very first Star Trek film is often forgotten (maybe rightfully so), so too is one iteration of the franchise's signature mobile communication platform, as seen here on Captain Kirk's wrist.

One would likely surmise that Knight Rider's most famous technological influence would be the talking car.
But often overlooked in the shadow of the artificially intelligent vehicle was David Hasselhoff's crime fighting protagonist's prescient model for the smartwatch.

When Gadget is an Inspector's last name, a boatload of random tech toys is only inevitable.
Compared to launching a helicopter out of a bucket hat, a smartwatch actually doesn't look all that exciting -- even when the program started airing in the 1980s.

If mobile device makers are looking for a demographic to target, perhaps teens are the ones to court. Or more specifically, teenage girls tasked with fighting evil and saving Tokyo, and by extension, the world.
Sailor Moon and her crime-fighting friends (all of whom make the jump from middle to high school throughout the course of the series) go through a number of high-tech (and sometimes sparkly) gadgets for various strategic purposes, including a virtual reality visor for analyzing enemy weaknesses.
But one of the initial communication methods is a smartwatch, a relatively mundane piece of technology in Sailor Moon's universe compared to the wands waved around for instant (and slightly NSFW) transformation into their heroic alter egos.

The Power Rangers might be remembered more for their Sailor Moon-like transformations into their colorful alter egos. (As well as some terrible CGI that makes the stuff on ABC's Once Upon a Time look like a J.J. Abrams movie.)
But the crime-fighting teens also had a few pieces of technology to assist them, mostly around logistics.
The most obvious was the gang's riff on a smartwatch, sporting the vibe of a vintage microphone with a wristband.

Aside from decades of laughs and an iconic pink sprinkled doughnut, maybe one of the greatest gifts bestowed by The Simpsons was a smartwatch.
According to Mashable, this isn't the first nor the last example Springfield's finest residents accurately predicting the future of technology.
In 1995, the show jumped in a flash-forward episode to the wedding of Lisa, the Simpsons' clever and precocious daughter. But it's not Lisa depicted wearing the smartwatch (if anything, she would probably invent it), but rather her future fiancé.

Now this one isn't quite in the same vein as the other blueprints for a smartwatch, but rather a magical spin on the age-old pocket watch.
In the third installment of Harry Potter, it is discovered that -- SPOILER -- Hermione Granger has been using a device, dubbed a "Time-Turner," to squeeze in extra coursework in a single year. (No, really.)
Of course, Harry and Hermione end up using the Time-Turner in another battle of good versus evil. But depending on which laws of time travel you adhere to (i.e. grandfather clauses and whatnot), this enhanced watch should be used with the utmost caution. Even extra homework took a toll on Hermione's health.

Throughout the last few decades of pop culture (and the preceding slides), there have been toy smartwatches in the present and real smartwatches depicted in the future.
Sandwiching two into one and thensome is Toy Story's Buzz Lightyear.
Along with a tricked-out utility belt, the toy space ranger hero's smartwatch is more of a fully-fledged personal weapons system. While Buzz's laser-wielding armband isn't as sleek or discreet as something from James Bond's watch collection, it's certainly more revolutionary (and threatening) than stuffed cowboy Woody's old-fangled empty revolver holster.
Based on more than a few recent analyst forecasts, Apple's imminent product launch will be the catalyst launching the smartwatch to infinity and beyond.
Finally, I'm in no rush to get one. Sure, the little kid inside me wants one, and I could totally justify getting one with that phrase "it's for review," but as to wanting to be the first to own one, well, let's just say I've transcended my ego enough for that not to be an issue. If you love being the first to own something, there's nothing wrong with that, but that doesn't work for me. I know that in a year's time there'll be a better Apple Watch, and a better one a year after that. Since I have no real use for one, I'm winning out by sitting on my wallet. And if something cool comes up, then the price of entry into the Apple Watch cool club starts at $350.
It is, after all, nothing that money can't buy.
Bottom line, I'm both impressed and disappointed in with the Apple Watch. Apple should be commended for aspects of the design such as the digital crown and the UI, but it's such a shame that it is let down not only by not being waterproof, but also by the fact that in reality it's little more than a glorified notifications screen.

| Image 1 of 16

Apple has finally released its newest product line – the Apple Watch. This, the company claims, it its most personal device to date. Let's take a look at what this new product has to offer.
See also:

The Apple Watch comes in three different varieties:

Comes in two sizes:

Comes in two sizes:

Priced from $10K rising to a whopping $17,000 depending on the band, the Apple Watch Edition will be available from selected outlets.

The aluminum used to make Apple Watch Sport is 60 percent stronger than standard alloys, while the stainless steel used to make the cases is up to 80 percent harder through a specialized cold-forging process.

Apple is saying that the Apple Watch has an 18-hour battery life, which means nightly charging using the snap-on inductive charger.
No word on how much real-world usage users can expect from the device.

The Apple Watch will be available for pre-order and preview from April 10 in the following territories, with the product starting to ship April 24:

The Apple Watch is not a standalone device, and needs an iPhone to work its magic. In fact, it offloads much of the hard work onto the iPhone in order to extend battery life.

The Apple Watch will feature a highly-customizable face, allowing it to display a wide range of information.

The Apple Watch puts a lot of emphasis on health and fitness, with motion trackers that monitor your movements and a heartrate monitor to keep an eye on that side of things.

... all from your wrist! You can finally talk to your wristwatch!
Wearers will also be able to send and receive iMessages, as well as emails and communications from other apps.

The Apple watch introduces novel communications methods using sketches and even sending heartbeats.

The Apple Watch leverages Siri so you can dictate messages, create appointments and much more. This means that you don't have to peck away at a microscopic keyboard!

Apple has integrated the convenience of Apple Pay directly into the Apple Watch, making it even easier to use.

With the Apple Watch wearers will be able to show boarding passes, hail cabs using Uber, unlock hotel doors, scroll through Instagram and much more.
See also:
