http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675678/s/45350949/sc/15/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Capple0Ewatch0Eaccessories0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Cool Apple Watch accessories to help you customize it

| Image 1 of 17

















The Apple Watch isn't out yet, but manufacturers are falling over themselves to come out with accessories for Apple's newest product.
There are a lot of accessories out there. Many are cool, while some feel like lame cash grabs. If you want to make your Apple Watch stand out from the rest, you can either send crazy money on the Edition version, or customize it with some accessories. Here are some of the cool accessories that I've come across that you can use to do just that.
A word of warning: Some of these products are seeking crowdfunding dollars in order to turn the idea into reality. While most crowdfunding projects go without a hitch and people who paid their money get what they were promised, some projects do end in failure. With that in mind I want to make it clear that I'm not endorsing any such projects. My advice is to wait for products to come to market before parting with your money. However, if you're happy with the idea of crowdfunding, then feel free to become a backer, just be aware of the risks.
With that out of the way, let's take a look some of the best Apple Watch accessories.
Reserve Strap: A silicon band with embedded lithium polymer cells and an inductive charging cradle that sits between the wrist and the Apple Watch.
The best HDMI operating system sticks
There's a new kind of computer in town and it's resides on an HDMI stick that's not much bigger than a pack of gum.
Click!: A watch band adapter that allows you to customize your Apple Watch.
Calypso Moment: Fancy charging platform so you can stare lovingly at your shiny new bauble (at least until the limerence wears off).
Doria Defense Edge: A combination of a durable machined aluminum exterior and a soft rubber lining to protect the edges of the Apple Watch from scratches and impacts.
Actionproof 'The Bumper': Protective bumper for the Apple Watch. Available in a range of colors.
Nomad Pod: A lithium-ion battery pack that allows you to carry enough power for four recharges of the Apple Watch.
The Cyclip: A handlebar adapter for the Apple Watch.
EPIK Apple Watch Kit: Premium rugged protection for the Apple Watch.
Griffin WatchStand: A stylish stand and charging dock for the Apple Watch.
DODOcase charging stand: Luxury charging stand handcrafted from Californian American Walnut.

| Image 1 of 16

Apple has finally released its newest product line – the Apple Watch. This, the company claims, it its most personal device to date. Let's take a look at what this new product has to offer.
See also:

The Apple Watch comes in three different varieties:

Comes in two sizes:

Comes in two sizes:

Priced from $10K rising to a whopping $17,000 depending on the band, the Apple Watch Edition will be available from selected outlets.

The aluminum used to make Apple Watch Sport is 60 percent stronger than standard alloys, while the stainless steel used to make the cases is up to 80 percent harder through a specialized cold-forging process.

Apple is saying that the Apple Watch has an 18-hour battery life, which means nightly charging using the snap-on inductive charger.
No word on how much real-world usage users can expect from the device.

The Apple Watch will be available for pre-order and preview from April 10 in the following territories, with the product starting to ship April 24:

The Apple Watch is not a standalone device, and needs an iPhone to work its magic. In fact, it offloads much of the hard work onto the iPhone in order to extend battery life.

The Apple Watch will feature a highly-customizable face, allowing it to display a wide range of information.

The Apple Watch puts a lot of emphasis on health and fitness, with motion trackers that monitor your movements and a heartrate monitor to keep an eye on that side of things.

... all from your wrist! You can finally talk to your wristwatch!
Wearers will also be able to send and receive iMessages, as well as emails and communications from other apps.

The Apple watch introduces novel communications methods using sketches and even sending heartbeats.

The Apple Watch leverages Siri so you can dictate messages, create appointments and much more. This means that you don't have to peck away at a microscopic keyboard!

Apple has integrated the convenience of Apple Pay directly into the Apple Watch, making it even easier to use.

With the Apple Watch wearers will be able to show boarding passes, hail cabs using Uber, unlock hotel doors, scroll through Instagram and much more.
See also:
