http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675678/s/44b32822/sc/15/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Cgalaxy0Es60Emost0Eof0Ethe0Ebloatware0Ecan0Ebe0Eremoved0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Galaxy S6: Most of the bloatware can be removed... sort of [UPDATED]

| Image 1 of 7

Samsung has finally unveiled its long-awaited and much-rumored flagship smartphone. Well, two smartphones to be accurate. Joining the standard Galaxy S6 is the Galaxy S6 Edge that features a dual-curve display.
First, let's take a look at the basics:
But these are just the bare specs, let's take a deeper look at some of the changes.
Availability: April 10.
See also:

Got stuff to do, you're in a hurry and your smartphone is almost flat? The Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge features a fast charge function that gives you 4 hours of usage from a 10-minute charge.
The Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge also feature wireless charging, supporting WPC and PMA standards, as well as offering support for Qi-enabled chargers.
One downside is that you'll have to purchase the wireless charging pad separately, which is a bit of a rub.

As well has having a larger f1.9 aperture front and rear camera – which should dramatically help low-light performance – Samsung has worked on making the camera faster to access. Samsung claims that you can launch the camera in 0.7 seconds no matter whether you are using the smartphone or it is locked.

Both the Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge are equipped with a 5.1-inch 2,560×1,440 (QHD resolution) Super AMOLED display with a pixel density of 577 ppi.

With the Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge Samsung has moved away from plastic to adopt a seamless, full metal and glass construction. The glass comes in the form of the highly durable Gorilla Glass 4, and the glass has been treated with a special reflective material on the inside to give it a highly jeweled finish.

The Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge will be offered in White Pearl, Black Sapphire, and Gold Platinum options, along with a special Blue Topaz for the Galaxy S6, and Green Emerald for the Galaxy S6 Edge.

The upsides:
The downsides:
[UPDATE: It appears this is not as simple as it seemed initially. You can remove icons from the user interface (UI) by disabling apps, but the removed app still remain on the flash memory. This means that while you can streamline the UI, the unwanted apps still take up space on the flash memory.
Here's a video that shows how it works:
It's a compromise, but it's a step in the right direction, but it's still annoying that Samsung doesn't give users a proper - and permanent - way to delete unwanted apps.]
One of the biggest complaints leveled at Android smartphones is the plethora of apps, many of which unwanted, that come preinstalled on the devices. Samsung has listened to this and has made the bloatware it installs on the Galaxy S6 user-removable.
According to screenshots uploaded to the XDA Developers forum by member Jeshter2000, users are able to uninstall a range of apps including Google apps such as YouTube and Play Store, along with the Microsoft OneDrive, OneNote, and Skype apps.
Not only that, but users will also be able to delete Samsung's own apps, such as Calculator, S Voice, and S Health.
Deleting unwanted apps not only allows the user to free up space on the smartphone, but also allows them to streamline the user interface to suit their needs.
This offers the best of both worlds, allowing those who like getting free stuff to continue to have access to free stuff, while simultaneously allowing those who want a more pure Android experience to get it.
Being able to remove unnecessary apps will also be useful in BYOD or corporate situations where the use of some apps will be banned.
If the user later suffers from "deleter's remorse," the apps can be redownloaded from either the Play Store or Samsung's Galaxy Apps marketplace.
While Samsung is moving in the direction of allowing users to remove apps, Apple is increasingly foisting undeletable apps such as Newsstand and the Apple Watch app on users.
See also:
