http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675679/s/44df12f8/sc/28/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Cformer0Etarget0Ecio0Ejoins0Esoftware0Efirm0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Former Target CIO joins cloud-based apps company
Former Target CIO Beth Jacob, who resigned in the wake of the retailer's massive 2013 data breach, has landed with another Minneapolis, Minn., company, cloud-based supply chain management firm SPS Commerce.
The company announced Jacob is joining its executive team as chief customer success officer. Her role will be to define and manage the global customer strategy for all products.
How hackers stole millions of credit card records from Target
How did the cyberattack on Target, which resulted in the theft of millions of records, take place?
The company said in a press release that Jacob brings strong leadership experience in global operations, technology strategy and worldwide expansion. "She is an accomplished leader with a passion for customers and the teams that serve them," said Archie Black, president and CEO of SPS Commerce, a publicly traded company with 943 employees and a market cap of $1.09 billion.
Jacobs was Target's CIO in Dec. 2013 when the company announced it was the victim of a massive breach that resulted in the loss of 70 million customer records that included personal data.
Following the breach, Target announced in March 2014 an overhaul of its information security practices. At the same time, Jacob resigned the CIO post she had held for five years. She was the first Target executive to resign as part of the breach fallout. Two months later, CEO Gregg Steinhafel also resigned.
Target has begun to rebuild, last month it announced Mike McNamara will assume the role of executive vice president and chief information officer. He replaced the retiring CIO Bob DeRodes, who held similar positions at Home Depot and Delta Airlines. He had replaced Jacob.
Target reported to the SEC in February that it has sustained $252 million in gross breach-related expenses since Dec. 2013.
