http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675643/s/44300430/sc/4/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Cnng0Eans0Elaunch0Especially0Edesigned0Enavigation0Eunit0Efor0Eindia0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
NNG, ANS launch specially designed navigation unit for India
In partnership with Hungary-based NNG, Ayana Navigation Solutions (ANS) have introduced new Personal Navigation Devices (PND) especially designed for the Indian market.
NNG is the leading navigation solution provider for the automotive, personal and wireless navigation markets. NNG's iGO Navigation software is currently installed in more than 20 million devices throughout the world, and the company claims that they have more maps available than any other company.
Established in 2011, Ayana Navigation Solutions (ANS) develops and offers complete navigation solutions and car multimedia systems. It provides highly customized, localized solutions for numerous regions including India, Middle East, Africa, Europe, Russia & CIS, and North America.
ANS announced A-501 device, a 5-inch PND that runs on the iGO primo software by NNG. The PND is pre-loaded with the latest India maps and a total of over 7 million Points of Interest (POIs). The unit comes with a 1-year map update guarantee from NNG’s update portal Naviextras.com, with paid subsequent upgrades after that.
In the brief hands-on, I particularly liked how the device interprets the user's behavior and offers fast solutions. For example, in response to reduced driving speed, the software calculates detours, assuming that the driver has run into sudden traffic. When leaving the highway unexpectedly, the system doesn't just blindly guide the driver back to his original route, but offers petrol stations or restaurants as an alternative.
Commenting on the scope of navigation devices in India, Péter Bolesza, vice president of EEU and emerging markets at NNG, said: "India has a diverse demography and with increased urbanization, navigation solutions have become the need of the hour. We are convinced that iGO primo--easy and quick to use, and optimized for the Indian road system--makes driving an enjoyable and stress-free activity."
India is tricky market for navigation services . While it has the second largest road network in the world, the real-life driving experience and the traffic situation is unique to the country. The localization attempts by ANS attempts to address these issues. The PND offers voice guidance in the way Indians instruct each other, taking reference to shops, monuments, bridges, and etc, instead of "take a right after 800 meters". Also, the service offers real-time traffic information in major Indian cities that help the driver avoid congested road sections as well as historical reference based on past traffic data when calculating the best route based on the day of the week and the time of day.
While the product would offer English and Hindi languages right away, ANS is working to bring more regional languages next year. The new PND will be available in car dealerships, retail channels, and aftermarket accessory stores from October 2013.
