http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675682/s/44faff62/sc/19/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Cnational0Emuseum0Eof0Ecomputings0Eeaster0Ebytes0Efestival0Eopens0Eon0Eapril0E10Ein0Ethe0Euk0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
National Museum of Computing's Easter Bytes festival opens on April 1 in the UK
The National Museum of Computing (TNMOC) at Bletchley Park near Milton Keynes will open its Easter Bytes festival at noon tomorrow, Wednesday April 1. The main aim is to provide digital entertainment to stimulate kids over the Easter holidays, though there are plenty of things for adults to see, including the home of the Colossus code-breaking computer at it was in the 1940s. This may have extra appeal thanks to the success of The Imitation Game, a movie based on the life of Bletchley Park code-breaker Alan Turing.
This year, there is much more about robotics, ranging from one that featured in Dr Who to "a monster robotic arm used in the 1990s by the oil industry in the North Sea". Other trendy exhibits include the new BBC Micro Bit, an Oculus Rift virtual reality headset with games, and Minecraft.
There will also be another opportunity to navigate a virtual version of the old Bletchley Park maze hunting for Easter eggs, and a follow up to last year's successful LEGO competition.
Kids will also be able to try their hands at coding though Ocado Technology's Codability Project.
The Easter Bytes festival will run from noon to 5pm from April 1 - 12. Entrance costs £7.50 for adults, or £5 for kids aged 5 to16, students and those aged 60+. Under 5s get in free. Family tickets cost £20. The Bletchley Park Trust visitor centre has a separate charge, for those who want to take in the whole site.
All of TNMOC is open during the festival, not just on Thursday, Saturday and Sunday afternoons.
Meanwhile in central London, the Science Museum's free Information Age exhibition covers more than 200 years of information technology - from the telegraph to the web - in six galleries. The Queen opened it in October.
The National Media Museum in Bradford, Yorkshire, also has a relatively new gallery devoted to the internet and home computing, and it houses the UK's National Videogame Archive. There's a lounge with playable games, including a few old arcade machines.

