http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675643/s/44300530/sc/46/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Clg0Eenters0Eindias0Efast0Egrowing0Evideo0Econferencing0Espace0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
LG enters India's fast growing video conferencing space
LG Electronics has launched Video Conferencing System (VCS) in India combining Full HD video with a high quality audio system to deliver an integrated conferencing system.
The VR5500F is a multipoint system which can connect up to four different sites simultaneously while V5500/V5000/VR5010H/RVF1000 is the videoconferencing solution between two points. The VCS promises vivid experience similar to face to face interactions.
Speaking at the launch, Hemendu Sinha, B2B Head, LG India, said: "Video is a key component of collaboration and a priority for many organizations and SMEs. The launch of LG's premium Videoconferencing System ensures superb image quality, crystal clear sound and an added value for companies and entrepreneurs."
According to an IDC report, "SMB Telephony: Current/Planned Telecom Resource Use, 2013", 30 percent of midsized firms are currently using some videoconferencing resources beyond simple Web cams. The report indicates that the number of SMBs using video collaboration is clearly set for significant growth, and could potentially double in the next 12 months.
In the last few weeks, Avaya and Huawei have also launched video collaboration solutions in India. With a strong focus on Small & Medium Businesses (SMBs), these solutions help in increasing productivity, expediting decision making, and reducing travel costs. With minimum requirement for IT support, the solutions deliver rich collaborative capabilities, even on low bandwidth.
Easy to install and set up, LG VCS provides an intuitive interface. Its broad compatibility with external media devices and software applications enable users to connect different types of displays such as televisions, desktop monitors, and projectors.
LG VCS features some unique differentiators like Web-based recording where users can record and save videoconferencing data. The all-integrated One Remote Control can access LG VCS and LG TV simultaneously for easy use and for increased synergy effects between LG products.
The LG VCS is can be applied to a variety of verticals, and fits the need of not only large organizations but also of SMBs. The company claims that VCS helps build unified, cost effective and efficient teams.
