http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675689/s/442fd34f/sc/4/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Ciball0Elaunches0Esafety0Ephone0Efor0Ewomen0Ein0Eindia0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
iBall launches 'safety phone' for women in India
iBall's Andi Uddaan mobile device will be launched across India within 2 weeks, at an introductory price of just 8,999 Indian rupees (US$145). It also comes with free accessories such as a flip cover, extra back cover, scratch guard and even a little pink purse. So besides the incredible price and freebies, what really makes this device unique?
The iBall Andi Uddaan is the first mobile phone with a dedicated and exclusive SOS button on the back of the phone. In case of an emergency of any kind, simply pressing the SOS button will set off a loud alarm, alerting people nearby. Furthermore, calls and text messages are made automatically to five pre-defined emergency contacts.
The text messages provides the pre-defined contacts with the exact geographical location, in real time. Furthermore, the same message is also sent out automatically as an update to Facebook too.
In addition to the SOS button, the iBall Andi Udaan also has a pre-installed application: ICE, which stands for In Case of Emergency. The ICE feature allows users to enter vital information such as blood group, medical history, details of people to contact in case of emergency, and other features, thus triggering alert of an emergency situation.
Another feature, when enabled and activated, is a GPS tracking system by up to 10 people. The location of the user can again be viewed in real time or at pre-defined intervals, and this feature can also be used for business to track personnel in the field.
Under the hood, the iBall Andi Uddaan is powered by a 1.3 GHz Dual Core A7 processor with 512 MB of RAM and 4 GB of internal storage, expandable up to 32 GB, powered by the Google Android 4.2 Jellybean OS.
The display is a 5 inch IPS HD display, and also comes both a front 5 MP camera with auto focus and a rear 8 MP camera, also with auto focus and a dual LED flash.
