http://zdnet.com.feedsportal.com/c/35462/f/675690/s/453eb7d8/sc/15/l/0L0Szdnet0N0Carticle0Clogitech0Ekeys0Eto0Ego0Enow0Eavailable0Efor0Eandroid0Ewindows0C0Tftag0FRSSbaffb68/story01.htm
Logitech Keys-To-Go now available for Android, Windows
The Logitech Keys-To-Go is a thin keyboard that is highly portable and a decent solution for using with phones and tablets. When we reviewed the iOS version it earned a high rating due to its efficient typing experience and its water resistant design.
Logitech has released the Keys-To-Go for Android and Windows. The keyboard is the same as the iOS version, with the same fabric covering that protects the device from dust and spills. It is available in dark blue and black.
What impressed us so much about the first iOS version was the fast typing that was possible with the keys sealed inside the covering. They are mechanical keys, and provide good tactile feedback with reasonable key travel.
The new Keys-To-Go comes with a small stand for phones and tablets to use with the keyboard. This is an addition to the iOS model that doesn't include one.
Logitech Keys-To-Go specs:
The keyboard will fit in most bags and briefcases due to its thin form, which is slightly thicker than the cover of a paperback book. In our testing we found it a great solution for heavy text editing when used with the iPhone 6 Plus.
Those needing a portable keyboard for Android phones or Windows should check out the Logitech Keys-To-Go. It works with Android 4.1+ and Windows 7 and higher. It is available from Logitech for $69.99.
The following images of the Keys-To-Go for iOS show the keyboard in detail. While there may be minor variations, the device is virtually identical to the new model for Android and Windows.
| Image 1 of 8

Keyboards for the iPad usually come in a folio case or a cover that attaches to the tablet via magnets. The Keys-To-Go from Logitech is instead a standalone little keyboard, covered with what the company calls FabricSkin. The construction is reminiscent of the Touch Cover for the Microsoft Surface tablet.
The Keys-To-Go is a single piece that is covered all around with FabricSkin. The keys are raised from the base and are molded rather than discrete. There are mechanical keys underneath the skin that feel much like regular keys. The unit is rigid to protect the keys and has sure footing on most surfaces.
At only 6 mm (0.23 in) thick and 180 gm (6.3 oz), the Keys-To-Go is the most portable keyboard for the iPad. It will fit in the thinnest pocket on a bag, which lets you carry it with no effort. The dimensions show how portable it is: 242 x 137 x 6 mm; 9.5 x 5.4 x 0.23 in.
Ordinarily I'm not a fan of molded keys, but the sculpted ones on this keyboard are quite good. The keys have a distinct tactile feedback when pressed, and using the keyboard is much like using any other. In fact, I wrote 2,000 words with it in the first two hours after taking it out of the box. The molded keys take a little getting used to, but with practice you could type as fast using this keyboard as with more conventional models.
The Logitech Keys-To-Go has a layout like most laptops, so keys are exactly where you expect them to be. Spacing between keys is good. The keys you expect to be slightly bigger than the others are just that: the Delete, Return, Shift and CAPS LOCK keys. Unfortunately, there is no indicator LED to show when CAPS LOCK is activated, a minor quibble.
The Cut, Copy, and Paste functions are activated by pressing Fn-X, C, and V, respectively.
The top row has the expected iOS control keys which include Home, Search, and media controls. There is a battery key for checking remaining battery life. I take a lot of screenshots for work so I was pleased to see there is a dedicated key for doing that. There is also a key to take you to the multi-tasking overview, which is very handy.
The Keys-To-Go charges via microUSB (cable inluded), and has a battery life estimated at three months.
The Keys-To-Go works well with the iPad Air I've been testing it with, and it's especially good for use with the iPhone 6 Plus . It works just as it does with the iPad, and is the equivalent of having a full system that is incredibly small. This entire review was written using the Logitech Keys-To-Go and the iPhone 6 Plus.
The Keys-To-Go will be available soon from Logitech for $69.99, and will be available in several colors.
Pros:
Cons:
Reviewer's rating: 9.5 out of 10
See related:

The keyboard unit is the same width as the iPad Air.


The device is sealed to make it spill-resistant.

This is the tiny power button and the microUSB port used for charging the keyboard. Battery life is claimed to be three months per charge.

The keyboard unit is slightly thinner than the iPad Air 2, and even thinner than the iPad Air as shown.

While designed for use with the iPad, the keyboard works well with the iPhone 6 Plus.

