http://www.zdnet.com/pictures/photography-gadgets-to-kick-start-2015/#ftag=RSSbaffb68
Six clicks: Photography gadgets to kickstart 2015 | ZDNet
| Image 1 of 6 Filters and editing software can refine an image to give it more impact -- but so can a number of accessories, such as the Pixelstick. Available on Photojojo, the $349 Pixelstick is a light, aluminium stick which contains over 200 color LEDs. Once you've put the image you want to edit on an SD card and placed it in the controller, you can adjust settings such as brightness, orientation and speed. Set up a long exposure, wave the stick in front of the camera and you're done.SourceReliable storage is a key element for today's photographers, and more than ever, SD cards are found in camera bags. Revealed at Mobile World Congress this year, SanDisk showed off a tiny microSD with 200GB storage -- more than enough for bookings or days out.Source(Image: CNET)While Pinhole photography is an acquired taste, you can create some impressive images using the technique and right kit. The Ondu 135 Pocket Pinhole Camera is an attractive gadget for those who enjoy this kind of photography, and is small enough to carry about. The camera uses 35mm film, and is priced at $94.90.SourceWhile I am a keen photographer, most of my gear ends up stashed away in a cabinet -- where groping around for particular lenses is a constant annoyance. However, a successfully-funded Kickstarter project aims to change that through the LensRacks system -- a modular storage bar suitable for holding Nikon and Canon lenses, as well as Sony E-Mount and Micro 4/3s. The sleek mount will be available for preorder soon.SourceThe BlackRapid Backpack Strap is a handy accessory which attaches to backpack shoulder pads -- removing the need for camera straps to battle for shoulder room while you're taking photos on the go. The strap comes in at $34.95.SourceTypically, DSLRs will come with a standard shoulder strap -- which while making your camera more portable, can be awkward when it comes to grip. Instead, consider investing in Peak Design's Clutch hand strap, a tough and adjustable hands-on strap which will give you better grip and stability when taking photos. The strap attaches to a camera's strap loop on the top, or can be clipped on to a tripod if you wish. The strap costs $39.95.SourceFilters and editing software can refine an image to give it more impact -- but so can a number of accessories, such as the Pixelstick. Available on Photojojo, the $349 Pixelstick is a light, aluminium stick which contains over 200 color LEDs. Once you've put the image you want to edit on an SD card and placed it in the controller, you can adjust settings such as brightness, orientation and speed. Set up a long exposure, wave the stick in front of the camera and you're done.Source