Expert panel: Creating innovation in the federal government
I spend a lot of time considering how to program episodes of CXO-Talk. The primary challenge is bringing together the right people to discuss interesting and important topics. When evaluating potential guests, I seek people whose ideas and activities are genuinely shaping our shared future.
Three prominent guests appeared on CXO-Talk for a discussion about the evolving impact of technology in the federal government. The conversation explored how to encourage an environment of innovation in a huge, slow-moving organization. Although all three guests are strong supporters of work done by the Executive Office of the President and the agencies, their perspectives reflect the stark realism of experience.
Also read:US federal CIO? 'Someone from Google or Facebook will be eaten alive'Mission impossible? White House looks for new CIO
The guests for this discussion are:
You can watch the entire CXO-Talk conversation in the video embedded below.
Here are key summary points from the conversation. These comments have been edited for length and readability.
David: Compared to other government agencies that spent about $3 million, we probably spent about one-ninth of that. So, 85% less and got it done in six months.
David: If everyone were doing innovation, it wouldn't be labelled innovation anymore.
Some of these [challenges] are intentional by design. You know, we wanted checks and balances within the system; that's why it's slow and it's not like a start-up. The last thing you want is the department of defense to say, "We tried something. It didn't work out and we need venture capital funding otherwise we're going to go bankrupt." That's not how you want your military to work.
That said, there's this massive, exponential change in technology what's going on. We need to have a conversation with the public, with political leaders across the nation - at the state, local, and federal levels - about how can we better use technology and what does that mean to representative democracies?
We are moving forward with the transformation of FCC IT, and our budget is the same that we've always had.
Karen: Another challenge is the handoff making the process work on the back end. There is the part the citizen actually sees and that can get fixed fairly quickly. But there is a handoff that has to happen and sometimes the process is not as transparent as it needs to be, and is designed to really expedite something, but it doesn't seem like that to the end user.
So the government is trying to streamline something on the backend and really reduce the cost. But, it doesn't seem like it to the end user.
David: I [try to] be a non-anxious presence. If I can be a calming non-anxious presence who says, "We will figure out how to do this, I welcome innovative ideas." That can help the team move forward in positive directions.
Craig: The only thing that works for me is relentless, every day nudging in a good direction.
On a very frequent basis, I just keep pushing a little bit, hopefully not too hard, trying to create social norms and expectations that kind of work. This may have been successful after six years at VA, although I'm sure I'm not the only person pushing for cultural transformation and customer centricity. So the only stuff I know is just keep pushing. That's the only thing that ever works for me.
Karen: Have a shared vision of what that outcome is that you are pushing everybody to. It's a lot of nudging. It could be called obnoxious, I think, at times, to the point where people are like, "Oh my gosh, she's calling me again." They would get it done and hit the milestones so I would quit calling them. It's the art of balancing persistence and being polite at the same time.


