Spring is on its way so, regardless of what sporting or exercise activity you participate in, if you want to be successful and get the most out of your performance, start from the bottom up. Yes, feet first! Now that it is daylight savings time and it will stay light longer, more people will begin to exercise outside and try to lose that winter weight and your feet will play a major role in that process. The feet, unlike other parts of our body, are very complicated parts of our body, responsible for keeping us moving forward, backward or side to side on any given day, depending on the activity! They are capable of supporting as little as a few pounds to over 300 depending on how much you weigh. Each foot is composed of 26 bones, lots of joints, muscles, ligaments, tendons, a vascular system which feeds all the tissue structures and a system of nerves that allows you to move in all directions. However, if your feet are not properly balanced, the muscles in your entire body can pay the price and can show up as foot, leg and low back pain and put you out of commission.
Muscle imbalances can result in lower extremity injuries such as shin splints, plantar fasciitis, tendonitis, muscle strains and pain in the joints of your feet, ankles, knee, hips or low back. These soft tissue injuries are a byproduct of repetitive overuse. Too much, too soon, too quickly is the trigger mechanism. Exercisers are vulnerable to these potential problems because they are not aware of how important it is for them to be balanced from the ground up. If you have a tendency to be heavy or over weight it can place more strain on your lower extremity. The main reasons for these potential lower half problems from the low back down, is joint collapsibility in the feet, body weight and gravity. The joints of the feet collapse because of abnormal pronation where the mid-foot (mid-tarsal) joints are too flexible and flatten towards the ground. The plantar muscles in the foot and tendons are not strong enough to prevent these dynamic movements and when you add gravity to the equation collapse occurs.