As two dozen of us marched to the midpoint of the Edmund Pettus Bridge on Saturday where 50 years ago protesters pushing for voting rights including Hosea Williams and (now Congressman) John Lewis were beaten and tear gassed, I stood directly behind President Obama and next to the wheelchair of 103-year-old activist Amelia Boynton Robinson who was beaten on that very bridge decades earlier. Despite being attacked by police on what became known as "Bloody Sunday", she continued to register voters and push for equality. And on Saturday, she was speaking with one of the results of that unyielding fight -- the first African American president of the United States. As President Obama, the first family, former President George W. Bush and others made their way to the halfway point of the bridge, I thought about how 50 years ago, peaceful demonstrators were blocked from finishing their march across the bridge to Montgomery, Alabama. But I also thought about 50 years from now, and how the leaders and citizens of tomorrow will judge us based on what we did to keep the nation progressing forward. This weekend was a commemoration of a significant moment in history, but it was also a call to keep marching forward on the road ahead for our work is far from done.
On Sunday, I was honored to deliver a sermon at Brown Chapel A.M.E. Church, which was the headquarter church for protesters and Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. during the fight for civil rights, and it remains a historic site today. As I sat in the pulpit preparing to speak, next to me were civil rights icons from a generation ahead of me like former Ambassador Andrew Young and Reverend Jesse Jackson, as well as activists from my generation like Martin Luther King III and Sherrilyn Ifill, President of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund. Seated in the front row were Attorney General Eric Holder, Attorney General nominee Loretta Lynch and other Cabinet members. Again, it was a testament to how far we have come, but the continuing challenges we face together reinforce the notion that we cannot cease in our efforts.