It may be hard to imagine, but other things have been going on in the world besides the election. And while I no doubt will return to the implications of Tuesday's contests (not to mention the upcoming ones in December and January), I want to turn my attention now to another important story. First, though, I want to mention a couple of losses we have suffered in the past couple of weeks: two towering figures in the world of public policy, David Abshire and Rod Hills. David's long public service, most notably in the Reagan administration, was accompanied by deep involvement in the world of think tanks, most recently the Center for the Study of the Presidency and Congress, with which I have strong ties. David had a sterling record of accomplishment in the national security realm. He was a Reagan Republican who believed deeply in the need for compromise and for American institutions to work, and who had a steely integrity and unparalleled energy to find solutions to real problems. Rod Hills was chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission during the Ford administration. He was a man of piercing intellect, a leader in transparency and in fighting corruption, and a driving force behind the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Along with his remarkable wife, Carla, he fought to make the Republican Party a problem-solving party of the center. The Republican Party of David Abshire and Rod Hills was a party to admire, a party to govern. Both will be deeply missed.
The subject of my column this week is the striking decline in oil prices, from a long period of well over $100 a barrel to a point now, by some indices, of under $80 a barrel. Of course, Americans across the country are seeing it in plummeting gas prices—now in some places under $3 a gallon for regular. Like other good economic news, this fact has made no perceptible difference at the polls. But it has huge implications for global politics and economics—especially if, as is quite possible, the oil price stabilizes for some time at between $70 and $80 a barrel.