The controversial letter written by freshman Arkansas Republican Senator Tom Cotton and signed by 46 of his colleagues to the leadership of Iran represents an unprecedented and unwelcome development in what has become yet another highly politicized issue in Washington. Yet while the direct intervention of GOP legislators into the diplomatic process may have negative implications for reaching a comprehensive negotiated settlement with Iran that prevents Tehran from building a nuclear weapon and subjects its remaining civilian program to strict international oversight, the longer-term consequences may be even more severe. The letter not only represents a clear overreach of Congressional authority into the purview of the Executive Branch, eroding prudent and useful Constitutional boundaries, but also dramatically undermines the capacity of the president and his designated representatives to effectively negotiate and bargain with foreign powers moving forward.
Throughout the history of U.S. foreign policy, the ideal that politics stops at the water's edge has never been as obvious in practice, but the Iran letter does represent something different. As the Constitution set out, the Executive Branch was responsible for negotiating treaties and agreements with other states, and Congress was empowered to approve them (or not) through the ratification process. But what was assumed in this particular separation of powers was the need for diplomacy and the delicate, complicated, and difficult negotiations that it entails, to be carried out in secrecy and with discretion. Finding political outcomes that are mutually acceptable to various relevant parties often takes a great deal of talking and the consideration of wide range of points of view, preferences, and concerns. Many of these may be politically controversial and specific domestic audiences or interest groups may recoil if they knew certain issues were under negotiation. Certainly, a bad deal on its merits would have to survive the harsh judgment of public scrutiny upon the conclusion of negotiations, and at this time, it would be wholly appropriate for Republicans in Congress to object to an agreement that they viewed as fundamentally flawed and contrary to U.S. national security.