http://www.zdnet.com/article/email-spoofing-security-hole-discovered-in-google-admin-console/#ftag=RSSbaffb68
Email spoofing security hole discovered in Google Admin console | ZDNet
Security researchers have exposed a vulnerability within the Google Admin console which allows cyberattackers to send spoof emails which appear legitimate from unclaimed domains. Last month, as reported by Security Week, Patrik Fehrenbach and Behrouz Sadeghipour discovered across a security flaw in the Google Admin console -- used to control a company's Google Apps suite -- which allowed users to temporarily claim domains and send spoof emails. In order to test the vulnerability, Fehrenbach and Sadeghipour used the tech giant itself as a victim -- claiming domains including ytimg.com and gstatic.com to send spoofed emails. The domains are used by Google in relation to YouTube and both hosting files and offloading static content in order to reduce bandwidth requirements in web browsing. Throughout testing, as explained in a blog post and accompanying video, emails were sent appearing to send from these domains -- including "admin@ytimg.com" and "admin@gstatic.com." Normally, if you attempt to send a spoofed email from another server, Google will recognize the message and warn the user that it may be fake or fraudulent -- as the server will be shown as completely different to the domain. However, if you claim the domain through the Google Admin console, no warnings are given to recipients -- and so the spoofed email is likely to be considered a trusted source. As a result, cyberattackers could use this vulnerability to send out spoof emails which appear legitimate and sourced from a trusted server -- and contain no flags identifying emails as suspicious. Six clicks: Top free iOS, Android apps to learn how to programNo matter the age, learning a programming language is a marketable skill. Here are mobile apps to assist you. The duo said: The researchers reported the security flaw to Google, which was patched by simply applying a FROM no-reply@google.com. According to the publication, the team were awarded $500 for their work. This week, both Apple and Google plan to release fixes for the FREAK security vulnerability, a legacy Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) and Transport Layer Security (TLS) security flaw which allows hackers to launch SSL Man-in-the-Middle (MITM) attacks. Read on: In the world of security