​Apple Watch: It's an Internet of things play | ZDNet
Apple Watch has been billed as a fashion statement, the emergence of the smart watch as a real device and a way to generate iPhone sales. Perhaps it's more about the Internet of things ecosystem.When Apple Watch was revealed on Monday, a lot of the moving parts were already known. And then Apple CEO Tim Cook dropped a few items that were begging to be connected. Among them:Whether it's medical research---you and your health as a medical research tool---a Coca Cola vending machine, health monitoring and payments it all adds up to a touch point for Apple. As Apple blends its way into home security and other things in your life---appliances, diagnostics, diabetes checkers---it becomes a consumer front end device. Rest assured that the Apple TV will be another end point in Apple's IoT strategy. Also: Apple Watch: Official battery life data | Apple Watch and new MacBook prices worldwide | iPad Pro: Apple's unicorn remains shrouded in mystery JMP Securities research analyst Alex Gauna didn't go too deep, but he highlighted the IoT potential. He said: Indeed, the proper way to look at the Apple Watch is that it's another cog in Apple's halo effect. The difference this time is that the Apple Watch isn't really expected help sell a Mac or iPhone (it doesn't need the help), but does move services. | Image 1 of 16 Apple has finally released its newest product line – the Apple Watch. This, the company claims, it its most personal device to date. Let's take a look at what this new product has to offer.See also:The Apple Watch comes in three different varieties:Comes in two sizes:Comes in two sizes:Priced from $10K rising to a whopping $17,000 depending on the band, the Apple Watch Edition will be available from selected outlets.The aluminum used to make Apple Watch Sport is 60 percent stronger than standard alloys, while the stainless steel used to make the cases is up to 80 percent harder through a specialized cold-forging process.Apple is saying that the Apple Watch has an 18-hour battery life, which means nightly charging using the snap-on inductive charger.No word on how much real-world usage users can expect from the device.The Apple Watch will be available for pre-order and preview from April 10 in the following territories, with the product starting to ship April 24:The Apple Watch is not a standalone device, and needs an iPhone to work its magic. In fact, it offloads much of the hard work onto the iPhone in order to extend battery life.The Apple Watch will feature a highly-customizable face, allowing it to display a wide range of information.The Apple Watch puts a lot of emphasis on health and fitness, with motion trackers that monitor your movements and a heartrate monitor to keep an eye on that side of things.... all from your wrist! You can finally talk to your wristwatch!Wearers will also be able to send and receive iMessages, as well as emails and communications from other apps.The Apple watch introduces novel communications methods using sketches and even sending heartbeats.The Apple Watch leverages Siri so you can dictate messages, create appointments and much more. This means that you don't have to peck away at a microscopic keyboard!Apple has integrated the convenience of Apple Pay directly into the Apple Watch, making it even easier to use.With the Apple Watch wearers will be able to show boarding passes, hail cabs using Uber, unlock hotel doors, scroll through Instagram and much more.Those services are the future of Apple's business. It's hardware today and Apple Pay and subscriptions tomorrow. So while we ponder Apple Watch Edition starting at $10,000 it's worth keeping your eye on the prize. That prize is the Internet of things.Special report:
