<<<<<<< HEAD
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/magazine-31831603#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa
=======
>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
InterCity 125 v Hitachi: What are the UK's new trains like?
A new Japanese train is arriving on British shores to replace the much loved InterCity 125. Will people take it to their hearts in the way they did its veteran predecessor?
Pendolino probably, perhaps a Javelin, possibly even a Voyager. Not many modern trains are household names in the manner of a Rocket or a Mallard.
A new train is arriving from Japan with big shoes to fill. A test version of the Hitachi Class 800 Super Express has been unloaded at Southampton docks as a first step to replacing the familiar InterCity 125.
Over the next few years, 122 of these hi-tech trains will be assembled at a new plant in County Durham. All will be electric and almost half will be able to switch between running on overhead wires or - where a line has not been electrified - as diesels.
The first trains will run on the Great Western main line from 2017 and the East Coast main line from 2018.
Rail writer Christian Wolmar says the new Hitachi will be the standard UK train over the coming decades. "It is due to become the 747 of the railways."
Under the Intercity Express Programme (IEP), the Department for Transport in 2011 awarded a £5.7bn contract to Agility Trains, a consortium of Hitachi and infrastructure investor John Laing.
Wolmar is critical of the way the trains have been paid for. "It was completely insane with a very complicated PFI deal that will cost the rail industry and push up ticket prices for years to come." The DfT rejects this. "The IEP represents great value for money for the taxpayer, and will deliver the services that passengers need and expect," a spokesman says.
Wolmar is a fan of the trains themselves. "They'll be great to travel in. Modern trains are smoother and have more acceleration and Hitachi has a good reputation."
It is not high-speed in the European sense. The new Hitachi will reach 125mph, the same service speed as the British Rail warhorse it is replacing. (The maximum recorded speed for the 125 was 148mph - a world record for a diesel).
The Hitachi train is capable of 140mph but will only be able to reach this speed if Network Rail performs an upgrade on the track. France's TGV and Spain's AVE travel at more than 190mph (310km/h).
But the Department for Transport says it will cut journey times, increase the number of seats and services, and be more comfortable.
A nine-carriage Hitachi 800/801 will carry 627 people - 18% more than the InterCity 125. During morning rush hour there will be 28% more seats going into King's Cross on the East Coast main line and 40% going into Paddington on the Great Western main line, the DfT says. Average journey times will be cut by "up to 15 minutes" on routes from London to cities such as Cardiff, Swansea, Bristol, Leeds, Newcastle and Edinburgh.
There will be better access for disabled travellers. And it will have the biggest toilet of any train, according to Hitachi, with the doorway 87.5cm wide.
The trains will be produced at the factory in Newton Aycliffe near Darlington next year - the first new train production facility in the UK for 150 years, says Hitachi Europe's chief executive Andy Barr. It is expected to create 730 jobs in the North East.
Roger Ford, technology editor at Modern Railways, says its main selling point is the flexibility that the bi-mode trains will offer. It means that a London to Inverness train could travel up to Edinburgh on the electric wires and continue on to Inverness using diesel. At the moment a diesel would have to be used for the entire 580-mile journey.
It seems unlikely the new train is suitable for High Speed 2 (HS2). Its top speed of 140mph is a long way short of the 225mph needed. The DfT says that the IEP was procured for the East Coast and Great Western lines rather than to run on high-speed lines. But Hitachi's Barr says: "Given that we don't yet have the technical specification for the HS2 trains, we would anticipate that a derivative of the Class 800 could run on the lines."
In the next few months the early prototype will be tested on the rail network. Passengers might mistake it for the sleek-nosed Javelin, another Hitachi train that runs on High Speed 1 between Kent and London St Pancras, and ran a shuttle service to the Olympic Park during London 2012. The carriages of the new train will be longer than the Javelin as it runs on longer straighter routes, Hitachi says.
The Pendolino is used on the West Coat main line, which has lots of curves, and the trains have to tilt. With no such tilting technology on a Hitachi 800/801 there is more room inside the carriages, says Barr.
The Class 800 and 801 will be as iconic as the InterCity 125, Barr says. And a lot more modern. The InterCity 125 had a diesel locomotive at each end of the train, whereas all the kit needed to power the new Hitachi is under the floor - there is no need for a locomotive, he says.
Is this the end of the InterCity 125? Virgin East Coast says the Hitachi will replace its 14 125s, as well as some older electric trains.
First Great Western has 53 of the 125s - the most of any train company. It is replacing them with the new train on its Paddington-South Wales and Paddington-North Cotswolds services. But the 125s will stay on the Paddington-Cornwall service. The almost venerable 125 will continue on other lines such as the East Midlands service and between Scottish cities.
The Hitachi 800/801 will soon be a familiar sight on the railways. "Whether we view it with the same affection as the 125 remains to be seen," Wolmar says.
Ford thinks they are incomparable. The Hitachi is a "modern electric train" whereas the 125 was "something really special", a symbol of British design excellence.
"When it came in in 1976 it was the second fastest in the world after Japan's bullet train. It was something to be proud of."
A sleek, pacy, high-speed train, the InterCity 125. With its familiar sloping nose, the 125 symbolised a new era of clean lines and high technology on a network that had been underfunded and getting tatty for decades.
The InterCity 125 and its high-speed replacement
A new name is being sought for the trains. What might they be called?
As these new trains are running on the old GWR line, I'd called them the Brunel Bullet.
Andrew Ballinger, Bristol
I would call it the Viper judging by its sleek looks and those "eyes".
Chris Brophy, Doncaster
The New Deltic fleet. Deltics were the iconic post steam diesel engines, introduced at the end of the 1950's and they roared!
Laurence Vulliamy, St Ives, Cambridgeshire
Because of its colouring and window design, I think that the Seagull would be a perfect fit for this train, after all we are hoping that it will fly along.
Peter Clarke, Nottingham
Why not call the new train the インターシティ125.
Bill Hughes, Liverpool
Peregrine
Cailean Thomson, Lanark
I quite like the name Delectable i.e. diesel , electric , able.
Robert Jackson, Worcester
How about Punctual?
Bob Armour, Crawley, West Sussex
The new name should be Excalibur after the sword of King Arthur. It needs a name which sounds both cool and very British at the same time... People will be excited about getting on a train called Excalibur, even though it's not as fast as the trains of most other leading economies around the world! Japanese trains all have exciting names (in both their sound and meaning) such as Sakura (which means cherry blossom) and Nozomi (Hope)...
Steven Street, Bristol
I like Katana after the samurai sword - similar in profile, Japanese in design and represents (hopefully the train will) the pinnacle of manufacturing technology. No point in hiding the train behind a British themed name!
Robert Lorraine, Basingstoke
I think the new trains should be called Goshawk. This pays homage to the fact that naming after birds has been used for many new, innovative and fast trains. The A4 class, of which Mallard was one, were often named after birds (Mallard, Seagull, Bittern, etc). Then we had Kestrel and Falcon, which were both new prototype innovative locomotives of their age. A Goshawk is a large bird of the hawk family, very sleek and fast. A high speed hunter. What could be more appropriate?
Lyndon Smith, Keighley, West Yorkshire
A suitable name would be Interloper.
George and Robert , Wylam, Northumberland,
Have your say
Subscribe to the BBC News Magazine's email newsletter to get articles sent to your inbox.
In middle age people's brains can start to slow down. It can be both terrifying and enlightening, says Tom Shakespeare.
The journalist who revealed the romance between the world's richest man and Jackie Kennedy.
The boulevards of Budapest once swarmed with Gypsy orchestras but most have now gone - and Hungarian Gypsy music is withering on the vine.
What do mares look for in a stallion, and more nuggets.
Mothers in New Zealand are offering to share their breast milk after threats were made to poison baby formula.
The unexpected advantages of losing your memory
Sneaking on to Onassis's yacht to catch him with Jackie Kennedy
Five papers that changed medicine
Life in Crimea a year on from Russia's takeover
What happened to British prisoner of war camps?
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
