Lollipop running on 3 percent of Android devices
Android 5.0 Lollipop is now running on three percent of all devices accessing the Google Play store, with a further 41 percent running KitKat.
Lollipop, which was first offered as an over-the-air (OTA) update to devices in November 2014, is slowly but surely gaining ground. Its predecessor, Android 4.4 KitKat which itself first debuted October 2013 on the Nexus 5 handset, now runs on two out of every five Android devices.

While this is a significant milestone for Google, it is painfully slow compared to the adoption rate for Apple's iOS 8, which broke the 50 percent in 40 days and currently stands at 73 percent.
With KitKat, along with the now aging Jelly Bean, now powering four out of every five Android devices accessing the Google Play store, the older platforms are slowly being squeezed out. However, they are still likely to remain significant well into this year, and possibly next.
The slow pace of updates means that users stuck on older versions of Android are being left vulnerable to malware and data theft as a result of bugs in the code not being patched. It also forces app developers to support a myriad of what are essentially obsolete versions of Android while simultaneously being unable to fully take advantage of the new Android APIs in their apps.
Also, with Lollipop now beginning to make its presence felt, the importance of KitKat will now wane.

| Image 1 of 7

Samsung has finally unveiled its long-awaited and much-rumored flagship smartphone. Well, two smartphones to be accurate. Joining the standard Galaxy S6 is the Galaxy S6 Edge that features a dual-curve display.
First, let's take a look at the basics:
But these are just the bare specs, let's take a deeper look at some of the changes.
Availability: April 10.
See also:

Got stuff to do, you're in a hurry and your smartphone is almost flat? The Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge features a fast charge function that gives you 4 hours of usage from a 10-minute charge.
The Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge also feature wireless charging, supporting WPC and PMA standards, as well as offering support for Qi-enabled chargers.
One downside is that you'll have to purchase the wireless charging pad separately, which is a bit of a rub.

As well has having a larger f1.9 aperture front and rear camera – which should dramatically help low-light performance – Samsung has worked on making the camera faster to access. Samsung claims that you can launch the camera in 0.7 seconds no matter whether you are using the smartphone or it is locked.

Both the Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge are equipped with a 5.1-inch 2,560×1,440 (QHD resolution) Super AMOLED display with a pixel density of 577 ppi.

With the Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge Samsung has moved away from plastic to adopt a seamless, full metal and glass construction. The glass comes in the form of the highly durable Gorilla Glass 4, and the glass has been treated with a special reflective material on the inside to give it a highly jeweled finish.

The Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge will be offered in White Pearl, Black Sapphire, and Gold Platinum options, along with a special Blue Topaz for the Galaxy S6, and Green Emerald for the Galaxy S6 Edge.

The upsides:
The downsides:
See also:

