http://www.zdnet.com/pictures/2014-christmas-gift-guide-ipad-tablet-accessories/#ftag=RSSbaffb68
2014 Christmas gift guide: iPad, tablet accessories
| Image 1 of 10

Does your significant other or child have a spare, old iPad hanging around? Consider buying the iCade Core this Christmas. The device equips your tablet with retro arcade-style controls for the user to play classic arcade games, including Pac-Man, Asteroids and Centipede.
Price: $21.50
Purchase: ionaudio | Amazon

The Koala tablet wall mount, compatible with the standard iPad and iPad mini -- as well as a variety of Android-based mobile devices -- consists of two brackets and adhesive strips for safely mounting your tablet on any wall in your home you please.
Price: £19.99 ($31)
Purchase: Amazon

A useful and lightweight gift for consistent tablet users, Logitech's tablet keyboard comes in useful. The keyboard, compatible with Windows and Android tablets, connects over Bluetooth and combines a traditional setup with additional buttons for app switching, searching, media controls and tablet settings.
Price: $70
Purchase: Logitech

If, however, an iPad is more to your liking, Anker's iOS keyboard is a fair alternative. Although not as flashy as Logitech's product, Anker's keyboard is reasonably priced and slim, and includes functions such as volume and brightness adjustment, as well as audio track control and browser launching.
Price: £19.99 ($31)
Purchase: Amazon

Sometimes you want a little more screen and space when watching films or television shows on your tablet. Thanks to dongles such as Google's Chromecast, once plugged into a modern television, you can easily stream content from your mobile device on to a bigger screen. For $25, this tiny device can make a great gift.
Price: $25
Purchase: Google

For something a little bigger and more colorful, consider the Inflatable iMusic Chair II -- especially if you have smartphone-mad teenagers at home. The inflatable chair's two embedded speakers connect up to mobile devices, allowing the user to quickly stream music through a smartphone or tablet.
Price: £47.95 ($75)
Purchase: Genie Gadgets

The Nomad ChargeKey, small enough to fit on a keychain, is an interesting stocking filler for mobile device users. If your device's cable connects up to a USB port, then the ChargeKey can be used to charge it up -- handy in emergencies when you've run out of juice.
Price: $29
Purchase: Hello Nomad

More portable than an inflatable chair, EasyAcc's energy cube wireless speakers are cool-looking mini-speakers which can be linked up for use with tablets and PCs. The cubes have embedded LED lights which sync to your music, and the cube can also act as a hands-free Bluetooth conduit for answering your phone during a music session.
Price: £36.99 ($58)
Purchase: Amazon

The Airbender mini is a solid, rugged stand designed for the iPad mini tablet range. The holder is equipped with a retractable & detachable aluminum arm that allows for 360-degree tablet rotation, allowing viewing angles to be adjusted for comfort -- whether the product is used on a coffee table, kitchen counter or desk.
Price: $32.95
Purchase: New Trent | Amazon

Covers and stands are all well and good, but what about a decent stylus? The Jot Pro is one of my preferred options, due to its rubber grip and how it feels like a standard pen -- due to its sensitive pressure points. The stylus also looks quite good due to its steel finish, and magnetically grips your tablet.
Price: $29.99
Purchase: Adonit

Does your significant other or child have a spare, old iPad hanging around? Consider buying the iCade Core this Christmas. The device equips your tablet with retro arcade-style controls for the user to play classic arcade games, including Pac-Man, Asteroids and Centipede.
Price: $21.50
Purchase: ionaudio | Amazon
