London 2012 Olympics: Great Britain women's volleyball team buoyant despite debut loss to Russia
By Jessica Winch, at Earls Court
7:23PM BST 28 Jul 2012
Comments
The home team made a superb start as the team came out fighting to take the lead 8-7 in under eight minutes, accompanied by resounding cheers from the partisan crowd.
Russia’s women, captained by Maria Borisenko and standing a good head taller than their British counterparts, pulled ahead and took the first set 25-19. The world No 9 ranked Russian side then dominated the second set throughout, winning 25-10.
Two stunning spikes from Great Britain captain Lynne Beattie and an ace from Lucy Wicks helped the team fight back briefly in the third set but they were simply outclassed by the Russian side, which included star player Ekaterina Gamova, 31, one of the tallest players in the competition at 6ft 8ins who delivered a series of spikes and aces across the net.
Savanah Leaf returned to the court towards the end of the third set and injected some fresh energy into the home side, but Russia took the third set and the match 25-16.
Women’s head volleyball coach Audrey Cooper said: “I’m pleased with two out of three sets, so those two sets we’ll take forward to the next match.
Beach volleyball offers sun, sand and skimpy outfits
Royals to lead Olympics charge
'Blood, sweat, tears prove loyalty'
China blame meat-free diet
Beach volleyball pair selected
Team GB volleyball squads named
“We’re playing the world champions, so we were hoping to pinch a set, that was our goal and we got close in the first set.
“I thought our captain, Lynne Beattie, had a really super game today, especially in the first set. She was attacking every inch of the net and played very controlled.”
Cooper said a “clear win” of 3-0 or 3-1 was the team’s target for their next match against Algeria on Monday.
Wing spiker Leaf said: “I think we could have taken a set off them. They are a really strong team, I think we could have put some more balls away but at the end of the day, I’m really proud of how much we’ve improved.”
Leaf, aged 18, said the huge home support made a big difference. She said: “Not many people know too much about volleyball, and the fact that this entire place is filled out, that’s just incredible. It’s great to have that.”
The GB women's team is making their debut appearance at an Olympic Games in London, and they have fought hard to get here.
Most of the players play professionally overseas, but following a funding cut two years ago the team took it upon themselves to raise the necessary funds to continue as a national squad, working with schools, local businesses and the players’ families. For the past three months they have been using Sheffield Fire Station as their base.
Cooper has set a quarter-final target for her team, which means finishing in the top four teams out of a pool of six. The rest of the pool consists of Algeria, Italy, Japan and the Dominican Republic.

