Fifa set to announce tournament dates of controversial 2022 World Cup in Qatar
By Ben Rumsby
11:36PM GMT 14 Mar 2015
Comments
One of the most protracted sagas in Fifa’s history will finally draw to a close this week when its executive committee decides the precise date of the 2022 World Cup.
The Sunday Telegraph has learnt that president Sepp Blatter is poised to propose to ExCo members that the tournament in Qatar ends a week before Christmas after a task force recommended it be moved to the winter.
The ExCo is expected to ratify not only that switch at its March meeting on Thursday or Friday but start-and-finish dates of Nov 21 and Dec 18 for what will be the first ever northern hemisphere winter World Cup.
The historic decision will be taken more than four years after the most controversial award of a sporting event in history, one plagued by allegations of bribery and corruption.
Qatar’s shock victory in the race for the 2022 World Cup was achieved in defiance of warnings about the extreme summer temperatures in the country, which can exceed 50C (120F).
That led to immediate calls for a winter switch but it has taken until this week for Fifa to reach a final decision on the matter.

Under scrutiny: Sepp Blatter denies claims of corruption
Opposition to the move appears to have been quelled, although at a financial cost to the game’s world governing body that could run into hundreds of millions, if not billions, of pounds.
The last hurdle appears a deal with the European Club Association – members of which include Manchester United, Liverpool, Arsenal and Chelsea – to compensate it over the release of players for the next two World Cups.
That could be struck before this week’s Fifa ExCo meeting and is expected to total around £150 million for Qatar 2022 alone, three times the amount paid for last year’s tournament in Brazil.
The Premier League has resigned itself to a November-December switch, with the division itself likely to restart on Boxing Day, more than a week after the World Cup final.
Fifa vice-president Jim Boyce confirmed last night he would vote for a Dec 18 finish this week if that was proposed by Blatter.
Boyce, whose entire four-year term has been plagued by a World Cup controversy that began before he took office, said: “We are where we are with the damn thing.
“I’ve only one more executive committee meeting after next week to go, and it would be nice now if the thing was put to bed.”
<<<<<<< HEAD

=======
>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
