http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569879/s/428d423f/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cnews0Cworldnews0Csouthamerica0Cbrazil0C113598150CTop0EBrazilian0Esurfer0Edies0Eafter0Ebeing0Eshot0Eby0Epoliceman0Bhtml/story01.htm
Top Brazilian surfer dies after being shot by policeman
By Donna Bowater, Rio de Janeiro
1:19PM GMT 21 Jan 2015
A top Brazilian surfer died from gunshot wounds after reportedly getting into an argument with an off-duty police officer.
Ricardo dos Santos, 24, was hit three times in the chest and abdomen after the altercation on Monday near his home in Santa Catarina in the south of Brazil.
He died in hospital on Tuesday after four operations failed to save his life.
Police arrested a military police officer, named locally as Luis Paulo Mota Brentano, and his teenage brother, while both the military police and civil police launched an inquiry.
There were conflicting reports over what started the disagreement, with some witnesses suggesting Mr dos Santos had asked the police officer to move his car. Others said Mr dos Santos had intervened when he spotted the pair taking drugs close to his home.
Brazil and Netherlands recall ambassadors after Indonesian executions for drugs offences
Rio's zoo animals cool off with ice lollies
Woman escapes death as truck crashes through office wall
Watch: Plane bursts tyre but continues to gate
Rio de Janeiro 'super-bug' discovered in Olympic sailing waters
The suspect reportedly told police he acted in self-defence, fearing Mr dos Santos had a knife but officers who attended the scene found no weapon.
Meanwhile, some of the world’s best surfers paid tribute to the internationally-renown athlete, including Brazilian champion Gabriel Medina and American world champion Kelly Slater, who said his death was “senseless”.
“It unfortunately brings to light the number of murders yearly in Brazil, officially documented at over 50,000 with many thousands more going unreported,” Mr Slater posted in an Instagram message.
A statement in Surfer magazine said: “With heavy hearts we report that Brazil’s Ricardo dos Santos has passed away after suffering gunshot wounds yesterday outside his home.
“Dos Santos was a fearless, world-class tuberider, who captured the surf world’s attention with an incredible performance at the 2012 Billabong Pro, Tahiti, for which he took home the Andy Irons Forever Inspiration Award.”
Mr dos Santos will be buried today.
