Samantha Murray wins silver in the modern pentathlon to take Team GB's medal tally to 65 at London 2012 Olympics
By Jonathan Liew, Greenwich Park
9:36PM BST 12 Aug 2012
Comments
The sight of a British athlete making a stirring late charge for the line, roared on wildly by a home crowd, has become one of the defining motifs of these Games, and Murray’s crowd-pleasing finish was a fitting way to bring the curtain down. She began the final event, the combined run and shoot, in fourth place. But the 22-year-old French and politics student from the University of Bath rose to the challenge in one of her strongest disciplines to overtake Yane Marques of Brazil on the final lap.
All those lectures missed and deadlines rearranged to make room for her 25 hours a week of training have finally paid off. “My lecturer, I think he likes me, but I think he’s also a bit sick of me,” she joked. “I’m always saying 'I can’t come, can you send me the slides?’. So I can’t wait to go in and say: 'Look, I actually did do something. I wasn’t in bed when I missed all those lectures.’ It’s tough, but you’ve got to decide what you want from life, and London 2012 was my priority.”
Originally from Preston and now training at Pentathlon GB’s centre of excellence in Bath, Murray has long showed promise, winning bronze at the world championships in May, and a hard winter’s training at Fort Romeu in the Pyrénées had clearly steeled her for the undulating climbs of the Greenwich Park cross-country course.
This is the fourth Games in which the women’s competition has featured, and Britain’s pentathletes have never failed to deliver. To Steph Cook’s gold and Kate Allenby’s bronze in Sydney, to Georgina Harland’s bronze in Athens and to Heather Fell’s silver in Beijing, must now be added Murray’s achievement.
World champion Mhairi Spence was reckoned to be Britain’s best prospect at the start of the day, but her chances were tempered after an underwhelming fence, weakened after a disappointing swim and snuffed out entirely over the showjumping course. Her mount, a temperamental grey called Coronado’s Son, gave her a tough ride, and even though she did well to haul him around the course with only four fences down and a handful of time penalties, Murray was left to carry the nation’s hopes alone. Spence eventually jogged home in 21st place.
Britons offer hope of modern recovery
Woodbridge in the hunt for pentathlon medal
Modern pentathletes named
Spence wins Pentathlon gold
Heather Fell's final fling
Woodbridge to consider his Olympic future
But Murray was in inspired form, making the most of her many talents. In a sport as varied as modern pentathlon, true mastery of all five disciplines is an impossibility. The key is to minimise losses in the weaker events, as defending champion Lena Schöneborn found to her cost. The German could have mounted a late assault in her favoured combined event had she not endured a disastrous ride, shunting her out of contention.
Murray’s record of 18 wins from her 35 fencing bouts at the Copper Box looked ordinary on paper, but it was actually a fine effort in her weakest event, and an excellent springboard for her strongest, the 200 metres freestyle swimming. She posted the second fastest time in the Aquatics Centre pool, a time that would have broken the old Olympic record had Hungary’s Sarolta Kovacs not also gone quicker, and began the showjumping competition in fourth place. A steady ride saw her maintain that position.
She slipped to sixth after the first round of shooting, requiring 10 shots to hit the required five targets. But still she remained in touch with the front-runners, and after a 1km lap of the Greenwich Park course, she made up three places with a superb second shoot. She was closing, too, on second-placed Marques, a weaker runner than her.
By the time they completed the third and final shoot and set off for the final lap of the course, Marques and Murray were practically neck and neck. Murray easily passed Marques on the final lap, and with Asadauskaite out of sight at the front, Murray was roared to the line more than 11 seconds clear of Marquez.
“A screaming crowd, people behind and in front of you,” she said later. “Holding a pistol when you’ve just run 2km, co-ordinating your breath. You’ve got sweaty palms, your heart’s racing. It’s a challenge. But I’d trained in my mind for that moment.”
Life goes on. She will sit her deferred exams next month. In October, like thousands of young people up and down the land, she will return to campus to complete the final year of her degree. But when the students at Bath gather in the union bar to recount their summertime adventures, Murray will have a tale to trump them all.

