London 2012: My Olympics experience, Games volunteer Miranda Staveley
By Sophie Haslett
5:26PM BST 30 Jul 2012
Comments
Miranda Staveley is a 23-year-old Games volunteer from Fulham.
I’m a volunteer in the modern pentathlon at Greenwich Park, and I look after the Olympic competitors’ horses and prep the venue before big events. This usually means coordinating the stable yard, checking the horses have hay and food and laying out jumps for the athletes. I applied two years ago and wanted to be involved in eventing as I’m really interested in the sport, but the organisers needed people for the modern pentathlon and so I was moved into this area.
So far I’ve loved volunteering at the Olympics, and it makes a brilliant change from my usual job in investment banking in the City. Every day since last Thursday, and up until the end of the Games, I get up at about 5am, cycle the 11 miles from Fulham to Greenwich Park and then take the bus up through the park to where the modern pentathlon takes place.
When I’m there I’ll look after and wash the horses, mow the lawn around the village and generally make sure that the area is looking good for when the athletes arrive. I’m working 14 seven-hour shifts during the Games and so I’m usually finished just after lunch. Once I finish I go up to the Olympic canteen with the other volunteers, and we’re given a daily complimentary lunch of hot food, a salad or sandwiches. As of yet the food combinations have been interesting - I got vegetable curry and noodles together the other day - but it’s a great atmosphere. I eat with other volunteers, as well as the soldiers and staff from G4S.
The atmosphere in Greenwich Park at the moment is a good one, as there’s a real sense of camaraderie between volunteers and visitors. So far I’ve walked the course with a couple of the volunteers, and I’m sure we’ll all go to the pub at some point soon, too. What really makes it such an experience is that there is a real mix of people involved. Our group of volunteers is aged from their twenties to sixties and most people are like myself in that they’ve taken time off work and are here to enjoy the whole experience. A lot of my friends thought it was odd that I volunteered but my thinking is that this sort of thing only happens once in a lifetime. Plus, I’m a big fan of the Games and I love seeing the big stars like Zara Phillips riding around the Olympic Park. I was sceptical before I started, as I wondered whether it would be worth taking two weeks off work, but I’m finding every day different and so far it’s been an experience I wouldn’t swap.
My Olympic experience: Opening Ceremony volunteer Muj Hameed
My Olympics experience: actor Alfred Enoch
My Olympic experience: taxi driver Steve McNamara
Meticulous planning and smiling volunteers help to get London 2012 off to a good start
Here’s 20 jolly good reasons to feel cheerful about the Games
London’s Olympic exhibitions
What London experience would you recommend to people visiting for the Games? I think that just walking along the Southbank can’t be topped.
What has been your favourite Olympics moment? I was at the Opening Ceremony practice session last Wednesday evening; the stadium was at capacity and the atmosphere was electric. The drummers coming through the crowds at the beginning of the Industrial Revolution section was the best and most dramatic moment I’ve ever experienced in any show.
What impact do you think the Games will have on London? I think the biggest effect of 2012 will be on an individual basis: I had never cycled anywhere before the Games, and then last weekend I bought a bike from eBay so I can cycle to and from Greenwich each day. The Games give people the opportunity to see and do different things, and hopefully that will leave a lasting legacy.

