Steve Cram aims to reinvigorate men's running as adviser to British Athletics endurance programme
By Simon Hart
6:50AM BST 20 Apr 2014
Comments
As record crowds lined the capital’s streets for a fleeting glimpse of Mo Farah, the double world and Olympic champion last Sunday you could be forgiven for thinking that British men’s distance running was just about one athlete.
However, it is a view that Steve Cram is anxious to disprove with the appointment last week of the former middle-distance great to the role of ‘key adviser’ to the British Athletics endurance programme.
Cram, the former 1500 metres world champion and Olympic silver medallist who famously broke three world records in the space of 19 days in 1985, will work on a voluntary basis as part of a new endurance ‘brains trust’, joining the marathon world record-holder Paula Radcliffe and Alberto Salazar, Farah’s American coach.
He will concentrate on the middle distances while Radcliffe will focus on the marathon. Salazar will provide technical advice to coaches on training programmes and sport science.
Cram’s brief is to look at the overall structure of endurance running in Britain, as well to advise and mentor young athletes and their coaches. It is on the men’s side that he is likely to have the biggest impact.
London Marathon probe runner's 'short cut'
London Marathon runner, 42, dies
Smog fears of London Marathon runner Robert Berry revealed as donations soar
Farah is 'desperate' to focus on track again
Farah finishes eighth in marathon
I’ll be back, vows Mo after marathon despair
With the exception of Farah and one or two others, male endurance runners have found themselves consistently upstaged by their female counterparts over the last few decades, and the ranking lists bear testimony to the steady decline in performances since the golden era of the 1980s when Cram was in his pomp.
In the 800m, Sebastian Coe has held the British record of 1 min 41.73 sec for 31 years, and he is followed on the UK all-time list by Cram and Peter Elliott.
In the 1500m, Farah may have lowered Cram’s 1985 British record last summer with his astonishing time of 3 min 28.81 sec but only one other athlete from this century, Mike East, has made it into the top 10.
“There’s nothing in the food in Britain that means women have to do better than men,” Cram said. “There’s always been the talent. The wider issue is that we are a sport which perhaps hasn’t sold itself particularly well to boys because of all the other interests they have.
“We just probably don’t have as many lads who are interested and stay interested. The key is when we do get them interested, to keep them involved and find the right way to bring them through.”
Cram, who already has a hands-on involvement with the elite side of athletics as coach of Olympic 1500m finalist Laura Weightman, has been brought into the programme by Britain’s new head of endurance, Barry Fudge, a physiologist by background who has played a key role in Farah’s career.
“Barry was very keen on developing a new approach and using people like me, Paula and Alberto,” Cram said.
“Paula’s interested in developing young athletes and she’s obviously got a lot of expertise around science and medicine. I’ve got that background as well, and so has Alberto.
“One of the reasons we’ve got involved is because we all have strong opinions. We want to do things and make things happen. It’s important that it’s not just a talking shop where we meet three times a year and throw a few ideas around.”
Among the innovations under consideration is to tap into the knowledge of other endurance sports and perhaps create a British Endurance umbrella organisation.
“There are things that can be learned from triathlon, for example,” Cram said. “In athletics we tend just to look within our sport but, to be honest, throwing a javelin doesn’t have much to do with endurance, whereas triathlon has.”
Cram, 53, will continue in his day job as a BBC commentator and working for the charity he founded – Comrades for Children Overseas (Coco).
Two days after the London Marathon, in which Farah finished eighth, Cram hosted “An Audience with Mo Farah” at a London hotel, with the proceeds being split between his Coco and the Mo Farah Foundation.
“We didn’t talk about the marathon that much,” Cram said. “I think Mo just wanted to relax and have a night out. But there was definitely a lot of support for him in the room, and I think he enjoyed that.
“He said he’s just going away now to have a think about things and let it all sink in.”
Cram plans to host further audiences in the years to come, perhaps with a new, yet-to-be-discovered endurance star. One can always hope.

