Why playing netball can be a load of pants
By Anna White
1:15PM BST 31 May 2013
Comments
England meet Wales at 19.30 tomorrow night at the Netball European Open Championships 2013. It's a physical elbow fest, a far cry from the pivots and plats of school girl netball, where the A team and elite netballers are often considered too aggressive and competitive by their peers.
In fact, when trying to recruit players for an annual charity netball match, my pitch is usually halted with the rebuttal: "I don't like netball girls". Fair play.

But Sport England, the body responsible for promoting sport in local communities, has insisted on using netball has-been Tracey Neville (pictured centre) as an ambassador in its ongoing £1.8m investigation into why women don't play as much sport as men. Intimidating Neville, often considered as manly as her brothers Gary and Phil, will hardly entice non-sporty girls to play sport.
Check out the new Adidas YouTube ad. It's equally as misjudged, depicting skinny, athletic, boyish, bikini-clad teenage girls training hard. And all clearly talented. To encourage not-so-talented teeanger girls, embarrassed by their bodies, into lycra kit we throw these smug, life-loving beings at them in footage that screams cliquey.
Mums' netball goes up a league
Zumba won't save the Olympic legacy
England claim series win over Australia

And cliqueyness is not the preserve of schoolgirl sport.
On joining a Clapham-based netball club in my 20s I found friendships, comradery and a sense of belonging. But in this semi-contact sport I've seen a teammate smash her gums on the tarmac, a leg gashed open to expose bone and a punch up between our centre and a player from another side.
There are amateur female netball, football and hockey teams across the UK in-fighting and out-fighting and non-inclusive of women who "haven't played since school" or "just want a run around". But aside from the aggression and cliqueyness there's another reason why girls ditch sport. Let's get to the crotch of the matter.
At my male dominated secondary school, I was in a lower maths sets - the only girl surrounded by thick, sporty boys. For one humiliating hour a week we did gymnastics together. More like miso-gymnastics. School rules dictated I wore a collared t-shirt tucked into a pair of tight navy knickers, making me all the more conspicuous when stuck upside down on a horse.
Hence I've always had an aversion to those enormous pants that no matter how big you buy never fitted. Why make sportswear that when active and sweating demands constant re-adjustment?
Years later they came back to bite me and this time they were purple. Following an early morning netball match I headed home. Mid-spring clean in a t-shirt and my purple netball pants I took the rubbish out. Bang. The heavy Victorian door slammed behind me.
I accosted a neighbour and was invited in to call the locksmith. Nervously sipping a cup of tea with her elderly mother, I suddenly jumped up, without the aid of my trusty sports bra, and swore loudly. "My bath's running!" Eventually, with the bath full and my wallet empty, I returned home.
In short, those crack-invading, wedgie-inciting briefs incapsulate for women hauntingly humiliating hang-ups about PE classes. Communal showers; swimming in your bra and pants if you "forgot" your cozzie; pervy PE teachers; and being picked last by the leggy netball captain who sailed through puberty.
So in answer to the £1.8m question posed by Sport England: how to stop girls dropping out of sport? I say start at the bottom. Make PE and games a more fun, inclusive experience for all from an early age, invest in those who aren't going to be stars, and get rid of those bloomin' smalls that make everybody's bum look big.

