Clermont Auvergne 18 Saracens 6: Mark McCall's battered and bruised team limp into last eight of Champions Cup
By Daniel Schofield, at Stade Marcel-Michelin
9:19PM GMT 25 Jan 2015
Comments
Saracens limp battered and bruised into the last eight of the Champions Cup. Their passage was effectively assured before kick-off but they must now travel to Racing Metro, the top seeds, in April after a ferociously committed Clermont Auvergne performance ensured that no English club will enjoy a home quarter-final.
Clermont have traditionally been painted as the artisans of Europe, the fancy dans not prepared to slug it out with the brawlers. Yesterday, they ran out at the Stade Marcel-Michelin with their sleeves rolled up, ready for a scrap.
Saracens normally relish that sort of challenge and gave as good as they got in most areas at a venue where the hosts had only lost twice in 89 games. Mark McCall’s team edged the battles in the set piece and ­kicking exchanges, but lost the gainline war. Clermont’s smothering defence ensured Saracens barely entered their 22 and limited the visitors’ scoring to a pair of Charlie Hodgson penalties.
It was not a spectacle overflowing with beauty but much of what was pretty was provided by an Englishman, albeit one clad in white. Nick Abendanon was never greatly appreciated outside The Rec during his time in England but the full back has been taken to the bosom of Massif Central faithful. His try was a mini-masterpiece in trick play and how the right line can split the tightest of defencces.
After Saracens dominated the opening half-hour without making much headway, Clermont were enjoying a rare spell of possession around the 22 when Camille Lopez, the fly half, dropped back into the pocket. With Saracens expecting the drop goal, Abendanon picked a gorgeous line to run on to Morgan Parra’s pass, through Richard Wigglesworth’s attempted tackle and under the posts.
Roberts braced for Cardiff backlash
Europe means all of Europe, not Anglo-French
Parling adds to injury crisis
Farrell serious England doubt
No doubt Stuart Lancaster was too busy digesting the implications of Owen Farrell’s knee injury in the 15th minute to register the irony of witnessing a man-of-the-match display from an Englishman whom he cannot select.
Missed tackle apart, Wigglesworth passed and kicked well, Alex Goode was safe under a barrage of high balls and Billy Vunipola enjoyed a few early charges before being bottled up. Brad Barritt on the other hand contributed little in attack and was put on his backside by a Jonathan Davies’ charge in what could be a preview of the Wales v England midfield tussle.
What truly shifted the momentum of the match was the 20 minutes immediately after half-time when each team had a man in the sin-bin. First Sebastien Vahaamahina saw yellow for his needless punch on Jacques Burger but Saracens could only muster a single Hodgson penalty to make it 10-6 to Clermont. It could have been more. Billy Vunipola’s brilliant offload out of the back of his hand put Chris Ashton in a two v one situation but his attempted pass to Goode would not stick.
Clermont were far more ruthless when David Strettle was hardly sin-binned for his marginally late tackle on Abendanon who had caught the ball in touch. Initially the officials seemed happy to let play continue but the pernicious influence of the television match official ensured that a correct decision was reversed. “A terrible yellow card,” was McCall’s justified verdict.
Inevitably, Clermont took advantage kicking to the corner before Vincent Debaty, the replacement prop, burrowed over after a series of pick and goes. At 15-6 that was effectively that as Brock James kicked a penalty with a couple of minutes to go. Saracens did well to ensure that was it. The commitment of their defence in a losing cause can only be admired – particularly as they knew their quarter-final berth was effectively confirmed by Toulouse’s 27-26 defeat to Montpellier – but defence alone will not suffice when they travel to Paris to face the formidable Racing Metro. “We will have to play better than we did today and this is a difficult place to come, but we look forward to it,” McCall said. “Honestly it is great to still be in the competition.”

