http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569991/s/440ad7f8/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ctennis0Cdaviscup0C11450A2530CDavis0ECup0EAndy0EMurray0Ereignites0EScottish0Epride0Efor0EGB0Ev0EUSA0Bhtml/story01.htm
Davis Cup: Andy Murray reignites Scottish pride for GB v USA
By Simon Briggs
8:12PM GMT 04 Mar 2015
Comments
Tennis events in Britain may have a reputation for gentility and polite applause, but there could be a raw edge to the competition this weekend at Glasgow’s Emirates Arena, where a daily quota of 7,700 will be cheering Andy Murray and his team-mates in their Davis Cup clash against the USA.
Perhaps Jim Courier, the American captain, did not enter the country with as many misgivings as Alf Ramsey, the England football manager who once met a reporter’s polite “Welcome to Scotland” with the riposte “You must be ----ing joking.”
But Courier did still sound a little concerned yesterday when the subject of the home crowd cropped up. “What’s the reputation [of Scottish fans]?” he asked. “A bit mean? South American mean?”
Courier may have fond memories of overcoming Greg Rusedski in the deciding rubber of the 1999 GB v USA tie, but that was in Birmingham, against a player who had switched nationalities from Canada only four years earlier. The Scottish swell of support for the Murray brothers – who are likely to play together in Saturday’s doubles rubber – should be a good deal more passionate.
If anything, the fact that both Murrays put their weight behind the “Yes” campaign in last year’s independence referendum will only enhance their local standing, as Courier acknowledged yesterday. “We obviously know there is a political undercurrent here,” he said, “and that just adds a little intrigue. It is another wrinkle, another element to this competition.”
Agassi: Murray would benefit from children
Agassi: 'Murray is better under pressure'
Murray brothers set for test
Bartoli fuels talk of comeback
For all Murray’s extraordinary achievements, it is unusual for the people of Scotland to have a chance to watch him play on their home soil. The last time he did so was during two Davis Cup matches at the smaller Braehead Arena, also in Glasgow, in 2011. And that was before he had transmogrified from a regular winner of tour-level events into a grand-slam champion and Olympic gold medallist.
The sense of excitement was evident when tickets went on sale in November. There are more than 23,000 seats to be filled here over the three days of the event, and they disappeared in around 10 minutes – a rate of sale that would probably impress Beyonce or One Direction.
Andy Murray relaxes during training at Glasgow's Emirates Arena (Rex)
“This is home,” Andy Murray emphasised yesterday, in spite of the fact that he now finds it more convenient to base himself close to London’s superior transport links. “This is where I grew up, this is where my family live. I still have very strong ties to Dunblane for a number of reasons.
“Because the tickets sold out quickly, it shows there is a passion here for the sport,” he added. “I would expect they will get right into it. It looks like a great arena, a perfect size, and I’m sure they will make a lot of noise. There can sometimes be a few more nerves early because of that. But once you get through those, it makes a big difference and it can help a lot.”
As hosts, Great Britain also have the advantage of being able to choose the court surface, as well as the type of balls used. Unsurprisingly, their captain Leon Smith – himself a Glaswegian born and bred - has opted to make the conditions as slow as possible.
Andy Murray reads a good luck Twitter message on the GB T-shirt (Getty Images)
The USA’s No 1 singles player John Isner possesses arguably the greatest serve ever seen, using his 6ft 10in frame to generate acute angles and steepling bounce. When it comes to getting the ball back, every tiny fraction of a second will make a difference to Murray and the British No 2 James Ward, who did so much to break American resistance in San Diego last year when he beat Sam Querrey on the opening day.
This time around, Querrey has stayed at home in California. Courier mentioned a back injury, but it is also true that Querrey has been busy recording Sunday’s episode of Millionaire Matchmaker – a tastefully titled show in which he dates a series of likely lasses in the hope of finding true love. Meanwhile, his regular place as Isner’s back-up has gone to Donald Young, the world No. 47 and a man once famous for becoming the youngest junior world No. 1 in history.
“We are motivated every year to try to push on and obviously last year stung,” said Courier yesterday. “We don’t like losing. We certainly don’t like losing at home. The Brits came in and took it to us. It was a tight match … but for not very long actually. It got away from us on the first day. Now it’s a new year, it’s a new season, and we’re a new team.
“There are advantages to playing at home,” Courier added, “and advantages to playing away. There is something beautiful about being able to silence a crowd with a shot if you are a foreign player. I am sure Andy and James experienced that in San Diego last year and hopefully we can experience that here.”
