BBC Sport - Rejuvenated Rangers win to hand Hearts title
Wallace 44′ Miller 80′
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Rangers overcome a disjointed Hibs to get their promotion bid back on track and confirm Hearts as the winners of the Scottish Championship.
21 March 2015 Last updated at 21:23
Rangers overcame a disjointed Hibernian 2-0 to get their promotion bid back on track and confirm Hearts as the winners of the Scottish Championship.
Lee Wallace opened the scoring in a dull first half with a deflected strike and Kenny Miller added a controversial second on 80 minutes.
The victory arrested a run of five draws and assured Stuart McCall his first three points as Rangers manager.
For Hibs, meanwhile, it was a first defeat since December.
Employing a 3-5-2 formation, Rangers offered more gumption and drive than their hosts, who struggled to reproduce the high-octane football that has enabled them to overtake the Ibrox side.
Having been beaten three times by Alan Stubbs men this season, a novel tactical approach was required by Rangers.
And McCall's men were seemed to have a clear objective to disrupt Hibs' midfield playmakers Scott Allan and Fraser Fyvie, slow the match down, isolate forward duo Dominique Malonga and Franck Djedje. In that respect, they were hugely effective.
The match was hardly a spectacle, but that was to Rangers' advantage.
The opening period proved uninspiring, Liam Fontaine spurning Hibs' best chance with a free header from six yards after being picked out by Dylan McGeouch's cross.
Rangers had the better openings.
Former Hibs playmaker Dean Shiels blasted high and wide from the edge of the area and Nicky Law curled a free-kick narrowly over before Wallace scored the opener.
Hibs were caught napping by a quick free kick that released Nicky Clark down the left, and although his cross was blocked by Lewis Stevenson, Wallace reacted quickest to scoop his shot beyond Mark Oxley.
Miller scores the second to send the Rangers fans wild
Rangers' most threatening player was almost in again five minutes after the break, steaming up the left touchline but failing to fashion a shot after a neat one-two with Miller.
The visitors might have had a penalty, too, after Fontaine pushed Clark in the back as the striker looked to turn inside the box.
Referee Willie Collum had an unobstructed view of the incident, but was unmoved.
Hibs came close when Hanlon peeled away from Bilel Mohsni to head Allan's corner wide, and then when a Mohsni slip allowed Djedje to break, only for the striker's attempted pass to Malonga to be intercepted by Marius Zaliukas.
Rangers continued to threaten, too, Clark almost doubling their lead after Miller sent him through, but the covering Hanlon made a super block.
However, the striker made safe the points in controversial circumstances with 10 minutes to play.
Wallace appeared to clatter Hanlon inside the box, but with Easter Road awaiting a whistle that never came, the striker took full advantage to slot past Oxley.
It was a vital triumph for McCall and Rangers and one that narrows the gap on Hibs to three points in second place with a game in hand.
Full Time Match ends, Hibernian 0, Rangers 2.
Full Time Second Half ends, Hibernian 0, Rangers 2.
Foul by Martin Boyle (Hibernian).
Lee McCulloch (Rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Attempt missed. Scott Allan (Hibernian) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right.
Booking Scott Allan (Hibernian) is shown the yellow card.
Foul by Scott Allan (Hibernian).
Haris Vuckic (Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Scott Allan (Hibernian).
Haris Vuckic (Rangers) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Corner, Hibernian. Conceded by Bilel Mohsni.
Dominique Malonga (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Marius Zaliukas (Rangers).
Substitution Substitution, Rangers. Haris Vuckic replaces Kenny Miller.
Fraser Fyvie (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Ian Black (Rangers).
Booking Kenny Miller (Rangers) is shown the yellow card.
Booking Paul Hanlon (Hibernian) is shown the yellow card.
Goal! Goal! Hibernian 0, Rangers 2. Kenny Miller (Rangers) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner.
Substitution Substitution, Hibernian. Samuel Stanton replaces Scott Robertson.
Corner, Hibernian. Conceded by Andy Murdoch.
Corner, Hibernian. Conceded by Bilel Mohsni.
Substitution Substitution, Rangers. Ian Black replaces Dean Shiels.
Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Paul Hanlon.
Fraser Fyvie (Hibernian) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Nicky Law (Rangers).
Booking Andy Murdoch (Rangers) is shown the yellow card.
Martin Boyle (Hibernian) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Andy Murdoch (Rangers).
Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Liam Fontaine.
Substitution Substitution, Hibernian. Martin Boyle replaces Franck Dja Djedje because of an injury.
Attempt missed. Liam Fontaine (Hibernian) header from very close range misses to the left following a corner.
Corner, Hibernian. Conceded by Andy Murdoch.
Scott Robertson (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Nicky Clark (Rangers).
Attempt missed. Scott Allan (Hibernian) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left.
Fraser Fyvie (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Bilel Mohsni (Rangers).
Attempt missed. Scott Allan (Hibernian) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right following a corner.
Corner, Hibernian. Conceded by Lee Wallace.
Attempt missed. Kenny Miller (Rangers) right footed shot from the centre of the box is too high following a corner.
Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Paul Hanlon.
Attempt saved. Dominique Malonga (Hibernian) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal.
Delay in match Dean Shiels (Rangers) because of an injury.
Scott Allan (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Andy Murdoch (Rangers).
Franck Dja Djedje (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Marius Zaliukas (Rangers).
Dylan McGeouch (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Kenny Miller (Rangers).
Dylan McGeouch (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Lee Wallace (Rangers).
Second Half begins Hibernian 0, Rangers 1.
Substitution Substitution, Hibernian. Keith Watson replaces David Gray.
Half Time First Half ends, Hibernian 0, Rangers 1.
Goal! Goal! Hibernian 0, Rangers 1. Lee Wallace (Rangers) left footed shot from the centre of the box to the top right corner.
Dean Shiels (Rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Franck Dja Djedje (Hibernian).
Foul by Lee Wallace (Rangers).
David Gray (Hibernian) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Attempt missed. Marius Zaliukas (Rangers) header from the centre of the box misses to the left following a corner.
Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Scott Robertson.
Corner, Hibernian. Conceded by Darren McGregor.
Foul by Darren McGregor (Rangers).
Scott Robertson (Hibernian) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Lee Wallace (Rangers).
David Gray (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Dean Shiels (Rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Scott Robertson (Hibernian).
Foul by Bilel Mohsni (Rangers).
Dylan McGeouch (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Lee Wallace (Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Scott Allan (Hibernian).
Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Paul Hanlon.
Corner, Rangers. Conceded by Lewis Stevenson.
Attempt blocked. Nicky Clark (Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Bilel Mohsni (Rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Franck Dja Djedje (Hibernian).
Attempt missed. Nicky Law (Rangers) right footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high from a direct free kick.
Booking David Gray (Hibernian) is shown the yellow card.
Dean Shiels (Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by David Gray (Hibernian).
Attempt missed. Liam Fontaine (Hibernian) header from the centre of the box misses to the left following a corner.
Corner, Hibernian. Conceded by Nicky Clark.
Delay in match Nicky Law (Rangers) because of an injury.
Foul by Dean Shiels (Rangers).
Scott Allan (Hibernian) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Dean Shiels (Rangers) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Lewis Stevenson (Hibernian).
Foul by Dean Shiels (Rangers).
Scott Robertson (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Dean Shiels (Rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Scott Allan (Hibernian).
Attempt missed. Dean Shiels (Rangers) left footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the left.
Attempt missed. Liam Fontaine (Hibernian) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left.
Attempt blocked. Scott Allan (Hibernian) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Foul by Andy Murdoch (Rangers).
Dominique Malonga (Hibernian) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
First Half begins.
Lineups are announced and players are warming up.
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
Last updated 22 Mar 2015 UK
View all results
Last updated 22 Mar 2015 UK
View full table

