Martin Guptill hits highest World Cup score in New Zealand victory
Martin Guptill's previous best ODI score was an unbeaten 189 against England in 2013
21 March 2015 Last updated at 07:45
World Cup quarter-final, Wellington (Regional Stadium):
New Zealand 393-6 (50 overs): Guptill 237*
West Indies 250 (30.3 overs): Gayle 61, Boult 4-44
New Zealand won by 143 runs
Scorecard
New Zealand's Martin Guptill made the highest score in World Cup history with 237 not out against West Indies to send his team into the semi-finals.
His 163-ball innings in Wellington featured 11 sixes and 24 fours and beat the 215 made by West Indies' Chris Gayle earlier in the tournament.
Guptill, 28, hit 137 from his last 52 balls to help his side post 393-6.
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Cricket World Cup 2015: Jeremy Coney on Martin Guptill's 'tour de force'
Trent Boult then took four early wickets as New Zealand bowled out the Windies for 250 to seal a 143-run win.
Gayle's 33-ball 61, featuring eight sixes, entertained the crowd as the Caribbean side scored at a furious pace.
But they continued to lose wickets at regular intervals and were bowled out in 30.3 overs to spark jubilant scenes in the capital.
New Zealand, semi-finalists for the seventh time, will now face South Africa in Auckland on Tuesday at 01:00 GMT, with both seeking a first World Cup final appearance.
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Cricket World Cup 2015: Martin Guptill leads New Zealand to semis
Guptill's score was the second best in one-day international history behind Rohit Sharma's 264 and propelled the Black Caps to the highest total in a World Cup knockout match.
Having ended a run of 21 innings without a century in New Zealand's previous match against Bangladesh, he became the fifth player to make an ODI double hundred.
He joined Indians Sharma, Sachin Tendulkar and Virender Sehwag, and Gayle in the exclusive club.
His effort was also the fourth highest score in all List A cricket - limited-overs games that are not Twenty20s.
264
Rohit Sharma (Ind)
Sri Lanka
2014
237*
Martin Guptill (NZ)
West Indies
2015
219
Virender Sehwag (Ind)
West Indies
2011
215
Chris Gayle (WI)
Zimbabwe
2015
209
Rohit Sharma (Ind)
Australia
2013
200*
Sachin Tendulkar (Ind)
South Africa
2010
Opener Guptill, who was dropped on four by Marlon Samuels, already held the record for the best ODI score by a New Zealander, having made an unbeaten 189 against England in 2013.
But this effort, played out in front of a raucous Wellington crowd in a home quarter-final, ensured his place in World Cup and New Zealand cricket history.
It was a performance befitting the excitement in a country where the World Cup feels like a bigger deal than across the Tasman Sea in Australia. Whereas Australia has struggled to fill its vast grounds, New Zealand has matched size of venue to magnitude of match to be rewarded with capacity crowds and lively atmospheres.
Read more: 'Understated New Zealand finally daring to dream'
The right-hander, who began by driving the first ball of the innings for four, heaved six after six over the leg-side boundary after reaching his century.
The 10th of his sixes went out of the ground and landed on the roof of the "Cake Tin" stadium.
He shared a partnership of 143 with Ross Taylor, whose patient 42 was the second highest score in the Kiwi innings.
Guptill, who made his second hundred from only 41 balls, beat the previous best World Cup knockout score of 149 by Australia's Adam Gilchrist.
He also became the first New Zealander to score hundreds in consecutive World Cup innings and the first of his countrymen to bat through the full 50 overs three times in ODIs.
Gayle became the first man to make a World Cup double hundred against Zimbabwe in Canberra on 24 February.
But his record lasted only 25 days, with Gayle congratulating Guptill on the field when the New Zealander surpassed his score.
Man-of-the-match Martin Guptill: "It's a pretty cool feeling to be fair. We had a couple of good partnerships early to set us up to explode at the end.
"We were trying to take each ball as it comes and rotate the strike. We did that well and it worked out.
"After I got 100 I thought I should hit some boundaries. It was the quickest outfield I have played on here and you got value for shots.
"It was an incredible crowd. We will let this one sink in tonight and focus on the semi-finals tomorrow. We have work to do so I can't focus on it too much."
Martin Guptill shakes hands with West Indies captain Jason Holder
Former New Zealand captain Jeremy Coney: "Martin Guptill dazzled. He turned this stadium into a little carnival. He hit the ball so cleanly, drives that you've never seen anything like. He thoroughly deserves all the accolades he's getting."
Former India batsman Rahul Dravid: "It was incredible. Unbelievable. Some of the hitting after he reached 100… you were surprised when it didn't go for a four or six - that became an event. Everything was in the zone, no matter where West Indies bowled it. Some of the sixes were huge."
Australia batsman David Warner on Twitter: Very well played @Martyguptill great to see. Love watching batters hit the ball out the park!!
Former New Zealand all-rounder Scott Styris: Wellington have been spoilt!! First Southee vs England now Guptill vs WI
BBC Test Match Special commentator Daniel McHardy: "Stand up New Zealand, stand up the world. Just glorious."
David 'Bumble' Lloyd: Just woke up ......what ?????? Martin Guptill 237 !!!!!!! Well played !!!
Former Liverpool midfielder Dietmar Hamann: What a knock by Guptill. Great call to stick with him when he couldn't buy a run before the World Cup.
Listen to highlights from Test Match Special's and 5 live Sport's 2015 World Cup coverage.
South Africa beat Sri Lanka by nine wickets
India beat Bangladesh by 109 runs
Australia beat Pakistan by six wickets
New Zealand beat West Indies by 143 runs
Guptill smashed sixes on both sides of the wicket in his incredible innings
With 46 games played and only three to go, who's scored the most runs, taken the most wickets and hit the most sixes?
How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign

