Jagerbomb Jell-O Shots Recipe To Make For Your Next Party (PHOTO)
We know most people cringe with not-so-fond memories of bright red, green and yellow Jell-O shots scraped from little plastic cups in college. The kind that we ate way too many of in a single night and instantly regretted the next day. But guys, it's time to reconsider this college classic. Jell-O shots just got serious. They've gotten together with Jagerbombs to make a doozy of a shot.
You might think that a Jagerbomb Jell-O shot is a bad idea. These two types of shots have floored better boozers than us. But here's the thing: they're delicious. And, they're beautiful. So if you're careful to down just a couple (instead of the more common "oops, I lost count") then Jagerbomb Jell-O shots are just what you should be making, serving and eating at your next shindig. We think football season is a great time to introduce these impressive shots.
Get the recipe for Jagerbomb Jell-O shots at Bakers Royale. And be sure to follow her blog during football season for more game-day great drink and snack ideas.
Want to read more from HuffPost Taste? Follow us on , , and .
Get more Jell-O shot recipes.
Get the Bramble Jelly Shots by Jelly Shot Test KitchenA bramble is a cocktail made with a lemon sour base, gin and a float of blackberry liqueur. And while it makes a great cocktail, it makes a delicious shot.
Get the S'mores Pudding Shots recipe by My Baking AddictionA s'more, a dessert and a Jell-O shot all in one -- you couldn't ask for anything more. Be sure to make a big batch, this will go fast.
Get the French 75 Jell-O Shot recipe by Bakers RoyalThese shots have both champagne and cognac mixed into them, making for a great Jell-O cocktail.
Get the Candy Corn Jello Shots recipe by That's So MichelleThese candy corn Jell-O shots use coconut milk and orange Jell-O -- making a very tropical treat. They're served in orange slices, making it easy to eat.
Get the White Wine Sangria recipe by Jelly Shot Test KitchenIf you want the fun of taking Jell-O shots but you don't want to get too tipsy, a Sangria version is a good way to go. Flavored with citrus juice, it's just as refreshing as a cold glass.
Get the Cosmopolitan recipe by Jelly Shot Test KitchenCosmopolitans are good, but in Jell-O shot form they're even better. It'll be hard to have just one -- or two or three!
Get the Birthday Cake Jello Shot recipe by Sweet ToothWho needs birthday cake when they can have Jell-O shots in the shape of a cupcake, with frosting on top.
Get the Cucumber-Lime Margarita recipe by Jelly Shot Test KitchenIf you like your margaritas to come in a cute little package, then having them as a cucumber-lime Jell-O shot is the way to go.
Get the Car Bomb Shots recipe by E is for EatGuinness on the bottom layer, James and Bailey's Irish Cream on the top, this might be the easiest car bomb you've ever tried to take down.
Get the Easter Egg Jelly Shooters recipe by Jelly Shot Test KitchenWhile these work great for the spring time, they're good anytime of year. Use your favorite Jell-O flavors to make the strips.
Get the Rainbow Cherry Jigglers recipe by Jelly Shot Test KitchenWho knew cherries came in all these colors and flavors -- but we sure are happy they do because they look great in these Jell-O shots.
Get the Blue Curacao and Citron Vodka Jell-O Shots recipe by Savoring Every BiteWith a shade of blue as inviting as the clearest tropical oceans, one taste of these and you'll instantly feel like your on vacation.

