Floyd Mayweather v Manny Pacquiao: Chess helps Filipino prepare for superfight
By Gareth A Davies, Boxing Correspondent
7:00PM GMT 18 Mar 2015
Comments
Manny Pacquiao has a secret weapon to help prepare him for his superfight against Floyd Mayweather on May 2 - his chess board.
Pacquiao has been playing the game for a number of years and has even been instructed by and played against a Filipino Grand Master.
He has a chess board in all his training camps and uses it as part of his mental relaxation, but with the stakes for the Mayweather fight so high, it has proved particularly useful in his current camp.
Pacquiao - who also makes sure he has a darts board in camp, having previously played in a darts league -
Dong Secuya, who runs Pinoy Greats, one of the most visited boxing websites in the world in Manila and who has played Pacquiao at chess several times, told Telegraph Sport: "I don't think playing chess is specifically a part of Manny's training for the fight with Mayweather but the game itself naturally makes you think more strategically.

"Manny has been playing for a few years now and he has definitely picked up the strategies of the game. Maybe when you are fighting a Mayweather it can help if you are thinking a few moves ahead."
Dong is one of the world's true authorities on Pacquiao. His website used to be called 'Pacland' - for obvious reasons - and has proven to be a revelation.
Secuya explained how it came about. "I created a website five months before Pacquiao's first fight with Barrera in 2003. At that point Manny was not known. His last fight before he fought Marco Antonio Barrera was against a Mexican and for some reason Barrera wanted the revenge. He picked Manny to fight him.
• Multi-million pound UK television deal to be announced this week • Freddie Roach wary of Mayweather 'dirty tricks'
"Barrera at that time was already a legend, so for a Filipino fighter to fight a Mexican legend it was big. I was led into a Barrera forum and there were discussions between the Mexican fans and the Filipino fans.
"One person on the forum said, 'You don't have a house on the Internet. You just come to our forum, our house, and make noise. You're just vagabonds.' At that time I decided to put up a website for Manny, just for that fight against Barrera.
"Who predicted Manny to win? Not many people. But the fight turned out to be historic because Manny not only beat Barrera but he gave him a beat-down that changed the whole boxing scene."
Out for the count: Manny Pacquiao is floored by Juan Manuel Marquez
When Pacquiao was knocked out by Juan Manuel Marquez, however, there were obvious signs on the website.
"His popularity dipped to some degree after Marquez. The numbers went down by 20 or 30%," Secuya said.
But that has changed since the Mayweather-Pacquiao fight was signed. "It is like a river of information now with the fight on May 2. The interest here in the Philippines is astronomical.

"We have never seen anything like it. Everyone knows that Manny will give his best against Mayweather. I don't think it will affect his popularity even if he loses, because so many people admire him."
But if he wins? "He will be the greatest hero we have ever had," said Secuya.
My bet, and Dong Secuya would not be drawn on this, is that if Pacquiao wins, he will go on to be President of The Philippines.

