Barcelona vs Manchester City: James Milner is England's 'most complete player', says manager Manuel Pellegrini
By Mark Ogden, Northern Football Correspondent, in Barcelona
10:30PM GMT 16 Mar 2015
Comments
Manuel Pellegrini has described James Milner as a “phenomenon” and English football’s “most complete player” in a clear attempt to persuade the midfielder to stay at Manchester City.
Milner, whose contract expires in June, is expected to overcome a knee injury in time to fly to Barcelona with the City squad on Tuesday for the Champions League round-of-16 second leg at the Nou Camp on Wednesday.

The 29-year-old faces an uncertain future at City, however, after rejecting a series of attempts by the club to tie him to a new long-term contract.
With Liverpool understood to be ready to offer Milner regular first-team football – and possibly the captaincy – Pellegrini must persuade the England international that he is central to his plans.
In an interview with The Guardian, the City manager insisted that Milner’s qualities made him England’s most versatile player.
Manuel Pellegrini, the City manager, has heaped praise upon Milner Photo: GETTY IMAGES
“The club wants Milner to continue and he wants to stay, but maybe he wants more games,” he said. “I am Milner’s No 1 fan – find me a more complete English player. There are players who are better technically, yes. Quicker players, yes. Players who head better, yes. But show me one who does all the things Milner does well. There isn’t one.
"Milner is a phenomenon, a guy with big balls and a heart this big. I hope he stays. If he doesn’t, it will be because there’s an important offer [from elsewhere].”
Milner (right) trains alongside City captain Vincent Kompany Photo: REX FEATURES
Pellegrini claimed that it would not be “disastrous” if City failed to win the Champions League this season, pointing to Real Madrid and Manchester United enduring waits of more than three decades to regain the European Cup in the 1990s.
Pellegrini, whose position is set to be reviewed by City if they end the season empty-handed, insisted that he had no reason to believe he would be dismissed in that eventuality.

