Manuel Pellegrini urges his Manchester City squad to play with 'big team mentality' against Barcelona
By Jason Burt
10:30PM GMT 14 Mar 2015
Comments
Amid the discussions over tactics and personnel as Arsenal and Manchester City face up to their improbable tasks of over-turning first leg deficits in the Champions League there was a telling comment from Manuel Pellegrini. "I think also that big teams must think and play like big teams," the Manchester City manager, whose future is increasingly in question, said.
For all the vast wealth and resources of the Premier League it is an accusation that can be leveled against all four English clubs in Europe's elite competition this season. Chelsea, Liverpool, Arsenal and City have all failed to behave like "big teams", to think like "big teams" and to dominate their opponents or at least to show the tactical and technical acumen to play more strategically against them. The first two are out. Arsenal trail Monaco 3-1 this week and City have to travel to Barcelona in the slim hope of overturning a 2-1 deficit from the first leg.
Under Pressure: Manchester City manager Manuel Pellegrini
Otherwise the Premier League, the richest league in the world, will not be at the top table going into the quarter-finals with the only hope in European competition resting with Everton's attempts to protect a 2-1 advantage as they face Dynamo Kiev away on Thursday. It is potentially slim pickings for so well-upholstered a league. And it cannot all be blamed on the intensity of the Premier League and the lack of a winter break although they are both undoubtedly factors, especially the latter which has to come into the English game. What did Pellegrini mean by thinking like a big club?
"Try to have possession of the ball, to the other box and to try to score goals," he said simply. "I don't agree that we had a problem tactically because we played with two strikers (in the first leg). Barcelona played with three strikers. Real Madrid played with three strikers." But it is not just about tactics (although it can also be argued that the strikers at Spanish clubs, especially those at Barcelona, have a different work ethic to the ones at City). Pellegrini was right in suggesting, although he then failed to follow his own point up, that it has more to do with mentality. City executed their approach against Barcelona poorly as Arsenal did against Monaco. City were foolish to allow themselves to be reduced to 10-men just as Arsenal were wrong to recklessly chase the game after they had scored against Monaco.
"I didn't think I made a mistake because one thing is what you want to do and another thing is what we did, which is a different thing," Pellegrini said when questioned over his tactics and playing 4-4-2 against Barcelona, allowing City to be out-numbered in the central midfield.
Messi-ing around: Joe Hart with Lionel Messi
"Maybe playing with two strikers we must work better to try to recover the ball," he added. "You will never have more possession than Barcelona because they play that way but when we have the ball we must do it better and must be dangerous as they have problems defending. "Second of all, you must play with a lot of intensity and high pace throughout the 95 minutes and you must have the personality to go for the game from the beginning as you one of the most important things is the style that we play in." That style, City will hope, will benefit from the return of Yaya Toure who is free from suspension to face his former club. "Playing with Yaya always makes a difference," Pellegrini said. "He's a top player and a very important player for our team. I said before that we must win also without Yaya and we did that in Rome and against Bayern Munich and we qualified without Yaya but if you ask me, I prefer to play with Yaya in my team.
Toure de force: Yaya Toure will face his old team, Barcelona "I think he will be motivated," Pellegrini added. "Not only because he missed the last three games but because he wants to qualify and be involved in the Champions League in the next stage. I am sure he will be very motivated and I'm sure the whole team will be motivated to get to the next stage."
Mesut Ozil, the Arsenal midfielder, claimed that motivation is shared. "We have to utilise our potential in Monaco and play in the way we know we can," the German international said.
Gunning for glory: Arsenal must score three goals in Monaco to progress
"We want to disrupt their rhythm and try to score as early as possible. It's going to be difficult to score three times because they have defended well in the tournament so far, but if you look at our past matches and the way we played against Manchester United (in the FA Cup quarter-final), I think there's a chance we can still progress. We know the quality we have in our team - there are world-class players here. Look at our options in attack, where a variety of players can and do score goals. That's a positive for us and we'll make sure to give everything in Monaco to advance to the next round."
To do so, though, Arsenal, like City, will have to show that "big team" belief.

