http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604265/s/30f4ac54/sc/2/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0C10A2934120CRussia0Eand0EUS0Eready0Eto0Ehelp0Eput0Ewrestling0Eback0Eon0Ethe0Emat0Eat0EOlympics0Bhtml/story01.htm
Russia and US ready to help put wrestling back on the mat at Olympics
By Ben Rumsby
5:39PM BST 07 Sep 2013
Comments
This unlikeliest of alliances was forged seven months ago following the IOC’s dramatic decision to throw wrestling out of the Olympics, something that shook the sport to its core. Today will almost certainly herald its successful rehabilitation into the Games when it goes up against squash and baseball-softball for a place on the programme.
Indeed, so nailed on does wrestling’s victory appear that it has raised serious questions over the fairness of a process that has allowed a sport, which has been part of the Olympics since ancient times - but was in dire need of a wake-up call - to go head-to-head with sports that are hoping to be rewarded for their own good work.
Provided it modernised in the way demanded by the IOC, wrestling’s status as an Olympic event was never seriously going to be under threat, making a mockery of what is meant to be a competitive process.
Even the new head of wrestling’s world governing body, who has rushed through governance and rule changes, acknowledged the status quo is not ideal.
“It is much more controversial for us because we are a core sport competing for a place as an initiative sport,” said Fila president Nenad Lalovic, who took charge after Raphael Martinetti resigned in the wake of February’s IOC verdict. “So, we don’t like the process, of course. But what can you do?
Olympic vote looms for 2020 rivals
Squash feels the squeeze from IOC
And the hopeful cities are...?
Japanese professor pushes for Hide and Seek at the Olympics
IOC powerless over Russia
Murray backs squash for Olympics
“Everybody had to compete under the conditions they have been given. That, we cannot change.” Lalovic was not taking victory for granted, insisting he was “anxious, nervous” about today’s vote.
Fila was given a reminder that even apparent dead certs can fall at the last this week when it was formally warned by the IOC for breaching rules over lobbying.
But what was merely a technical breach of regulations is unlikely to give false hope to squash and baseball-softball, which are putting on a brave face in public, but privately are clinging on to the hope that a change of IOC president could yet see them handed a place at 2020 anyway.
Squash, in particular, has an increasingly compelling case after a decade of persistent campaigning for inclusion, having fallen short in 2005 and 2009.
World Squash Federation president N Ramachandran said: “During the 10-year campaign, we have never stopped listening, learning, and innovating.
“We have literally turned the sport around - and we are a new sport.” Squash has also modernised, becoming more spectator-friendly by using glass courts and providing action replays, while it has the advantage over baseball of Olympic inclusion representing the pinnacle of the sport.
Egypt’s men’s world champion Ramy Ashour said: “I would swap my world titles for an Olympic gold medal.”
Baseball and softball were the big losers when London won the right to host the 2012 Games, losing its place on the programme 24 hours later. After failing to convince the IOC to reintroduce them in 2016, the two sports joined forces in the hope a joint bid would succeed.
That has been spearheaded by the son of long-time Cuban leader Fidel Castro, Antonio, whose own baseball career was curtailed by injury.
“This desire for the campaign to get the sports restored comes from deep inside me and my soul,” said Castro jnr, who was Cuba’s team doctor at London 2012.
But he and squash were fighting a losing battle against wrestling, which responded to the IOC’s shock-and-awe approach by making virtually all of the changes demanded.
Fila handed women and athletes a role in decision-making, it added two weight classes for women and it adopted rule changes to make the sport easier to understand and more fun to watch, rewarding more aggressive wrestling.
Describing the IOC decision as “the best shock therapy”, Lalovic said: “This crisis gave us a fantastic possibility to do so much in such a short time.
“We all decided to fight, but how to fight? You have to win a battle. You don’t know who are your allies, what are your weapons, and how many men you have. We found out in a few weeks and came up with a strategy.” He added: “When you fall into such a crisis, you either die or you recover. We recovered.”
