Wrestling, baseball and squash make IOC shortlist for inclusion at 2020 Olympics
By Simon Hart
4:50PM BST 29 May 2013
Comments
Squash and a combined bid from baseball and softball also made the cut, while five other candidate sports – karate, roller sports, sport climbing, wakeboarding and wushu – were eliminated in a series of secret ballots held by the International Olympic Committee’s executive board in St Petersburg.
Despite the IOC’s drive to refresh the Olympic programme and appeal to a younger audience, squash is the only newcomer now under consideration.
Wrestling, one of the original sports of the ancient Games, has been an ever-present in the modern Olympics with the exception of Paris in 1900, while baseball and softball were Olympic sports from 1992 and 1996 respectively before they were removed after the 2008 Beijing Games.
The final decision on which sport will be added to the Olympics for 2020 will be taken by the full IOC membership at its annual session in Buenos Aires on Sept 8, though the pattern of voting yesterday suggests wrestling will be the favourite.
It achieved a majority of eight votes in the first round of voting by the 14 board members, with squash and baseball and softball going through in subsequent rounds.
Wrestling hopeful of Olympic return
Wrestling dropped from Olympics
Wrestling loses its grip on the Olympics
Wrestling and modern pentathlon under threat
Why it’s not disturbing to watch women wrestle
The IOC’s about-turn on wrestling was widely predicted after the sport made sweeping reforms to its governance and competition format following its ejection from the so-called Olympic Family in February.
It was also able to summon powerful political allies after the United States, Russia and Iran – three of the most successful nations on the Olympic wrestling mat – formed an unlikely alliance to lobby for reinstatement.
Russian president Vladimir Putin criticised the sport’s removal as “unjustified”, while officials from the three countries even took their campaign to the headquarters of the United Nations in New York.
Squash, which is bidding for an Olympic spot for the third time, had also been tipped to make the shortlist because of its huge global reach, though the inclusion of baseball and softball was a surprise.
The decision of the two sports – baseball for men and softball for women – to join together in a single bid and in a format that would require the construction of a single stadium for joint use clearly impressed the IOC, though the refusal of Major League Baseball to release its top players for Olympic duty proved a major sticking point.
All eight sports gave behind-closed-doors presentations and afterwards IOC president Jacques Rogge said: “My colleagues on the board made a good decision.”

