Novak Djokovic denies feigning injury in final and offers olive branch to disgruntled Andy Murray
By Simon Briggs, Tennis Correspondent, Melbourne
10:30PM GMT 02 Feb 2015
Comments
Novak Djokovic has denied feigning injury during an intense Australian Open final on Sunday and said that he would be happy to sit down with Andy Murray, whom he beat in four sets, to discuss the flash points of a controversial match.
You only had to look at the photographs from Rod Laver Arena to see how angry Murray was at the close of his 7-6, 6-7, 6-3, 6-0 defeat. He sat on his chair and smashed a couple of rackets, and then waited out Djokovic’s acceptance speech in such seething rage that he could not even manage a smile when congratulated on his recent engagement.
The issue was the way Djokovic appeared to be playing rope-a-dope by exaggerating his physical exhaustion early in the third set. “I got a bit distracted when he, like, fell on the ground after a couple of shots,” Murray said in the post-match interview. “If it was cramp, that’s a tough thing to recover from and play as well as he did at the end.”
However, even if Djokovic was playing dead – and no one can prove that he was – there is nothing in tennis’s rules about body language. And Murray admitted: “I’ve been through situations like that before where I haven’t let it affect me. That was what was disappointing.”
Asked on Monday if he expected there to be any bad blood left over from this curious situation, Djokovic replied: “From my perspective, no. How he feels about it, it’s obviously still very fresh to talk about that. He’s definitely disappointed about losing that match. It’s normal that some time has to pass. We’ll see.
Murray has to find reason for his 'meltdown', says Cash
Murray capitulation leaves Djokovic as champion
Gripping drama has inexplicable ending
Watch moment Djokovic beat Murray
“If there is a chance, if he’s willing to talk, I’ll talk, no problem. I have nothing to hide. I’m not the sort of guy who is pretending, who is trying to do something behind anyone’s back or is saying bad things about anybody, especially about him, someone I have known for a long time. I have respect for him.”
The past fortnight could be seen as a case of two steps forward, one step back for Murray. The excellent impression he had built up with his assertive, predatory tennis in Melbourne was undermined by the sense of regression on the second Sunday, as he suffered his most obvious psychological meltdown since before Ivan Lendl arrived on the scene as his coach in 2012.
In his defence, though, it should be said that this was a ferociously challenging situation. Beating Djokovic on Rod Laver Arena is the second-hardest feat in the sport, after facing Rafael Nadal on the clay of Paris. So when the world No1 started to look as if he was cramping, Murray probably wanted to believe it so much that he forgot to be wary. The old saw applied: if something seems too good to be true, it probably is.
As he left Melbourne on Monday, though, Murray sounded increasingly upbeat about his efforts. Asked if he would be motivated by the manner of his defeat, he replied: “I made it clear I was distracted in the third set, that was all. I lost in a good way. I gave everything, my best effort. You guys obviously don’t see that; it’s only me and my team and the people I train with who see that. But I did everything I could to win this event; I have to be proud of myself for that and I don’t need things to motivate me.”
Murray’s record in grand slam finals now stands at two wins from eight attempts. It looks an ugly ratio but you have to factor in the identity of his opponents. There are no soft touches here: he has drawn Djokovic and Roger Federer four times each, and beaten each once.
“If he won a couple more matches maybe he would have five grand slams now and it would be a different story,” Djokovic said on Monday. “On the other hand I maybe could have won a few more. But this is the generation we are in, there are four players that are incredibly good and very few points decide the winner. I am sure Andy is disappointed not to win a few more grand slams but he also is a better player as a consequence to being a rival of the other three guys.”
As for the status of his former friendship with Murray, which has inevitably cooled while the two have spent so much time plotting how to beat each other, Djokovic suggested that the arrival of a mini‑Murray might help to bring them back together again.
After all, Djokovic’s own status as a new father has defused the tension that used to exist between himself and Federer. These two now enjoy the chance to bond over feeding schedules, nappies and buggies.
“We have been rivals for the last couple of years, so we don’t get to be together as we would maybe like to on and off the court,” Djokovic said. “But now when he gets married and maybe has a kid we will spend more time. We’ll have an excuse. Things will hopefully be different in the future. I do look at him, Rafa and Roger as my friends, honestly, because I see them so much more than my parents and sometimes more than my wife. There is this special relationship that has been created with the number of years that we spend on the tour together.
“Of course you can’t really sit down and have dinners and chat about some intimate things because tomorrow you’re going to be on the court fighting for the biggest trophies. So at this point of our careers maybe that intimate and close relationship is not possible yet. But we’re all humans at the end of the day and I think we should consider that human side as a priority before sport.”

