Harry Redknapp looks to grafters - at least until transfer window - to find a route to salvation for winless QPR
By Si Hughes, at the DW Stadium
10:00PM GMT 09 Dec 2012
Comments
It seemed like a good idea to spend £6.8 million - more money than any other club in the land - on agents' fees alone by signing a selection of players with Champions League success on their CVs.
Between the efforts of previous manager Mark Hughes and his advisor Kia Joorabchian, club owner Tony Fernandes was sold on the recommendations of Djibril Cissé, Park Ji-Sung, Júlio César and José Bosingwa.
Injuries have played a part but all bar Bosingwa were absent from Harry Redknapp’s starting XI when QPR drew with Wigan on Saturday - a result that means after 16 matches, the London side have gone longer than any other team in the Premier League without victory and have the fewest points at this stage of the season.
Even the Swindon vintage of 1993-94 that included lesser-heralded names such as Fraser Digby, Martin Ling and Jan Age Fjortoft had a better return and they eventually finished bottom, 13 points adrift of safety.
Afterwards, Redknapp said that Champions League medals mean “nothing”. Cissé later appeared from the bench to score but it seems - until next month at least - Redknapp is leading with the type of player that he believes will roll his sleeves up.
Wigan Athletic 2 QPR 2
Redknapp keen on Keane
Wigan Athletic v QPR: preview
FA investigates coin assault on Ferdinand
Anfield adds up for Johnson
Redknapp turns to Anelka
One of them in this match was Clint Hill; the defender of limited ability but maximum effort. Together with centre-back partner Ryan Nelsen and goalkeeper Robert Green, the trio just about kept the visitors’ in the tie.
Nelsen, particularly, was crucial at both ends of the pitch, scoring an equaliser in the first half with a header and making an obdurate block on just before the final whistle.
Hill insists making a raft of changes to the squad will not provide an escape route for QPR but had a message for any new arrivals at Loftus Road, one of whom is likely to be Robbie Keane.
“The chairman is throwing money everywhere, left, right and centre and sometimes that doesn’t work,” he said. “You’ve got to stick with people and work on them and try and get the best out of the ability they have.
“You can look at it two ways. You can think ‘Oh my God, how the hell are we going to get out of this?’ or you go ‘let’s prove people wrong’. If we do manage to do it, what a record and achievement it would be when you’re sitting in your armchair in 15 or 20 years’ time. So we’ve got to be up for it. If you’re not up for it, don’t come here.”
In comparison to the situation at QPR, Wigan, despite their struggles, do not appear to be panicking just yet. Both of their goals came from the right boot of James McCarthy. “Technically, it is difficult to find a better player,” claimed his boss, Roberto Martinez.

