Team Cartier seal third triumph at St Moritz's Snow Polo World Cup
By Gareth A Davies, Polo Correspondent
4:08PM GMT 03 Feb 2015
Comments

Team Cartier won the 31st Snow Polo World Cup 2015 in St. Moritz with a sensational 10-2.5 win over Team BMW, to complete a hat trick of successive victories.
The 6-goaler Chris Hyde led his team to victory, the 9-goal arena handicap player paired with a superb horse and displaying superior tactical skill notching up 5 goals, his Australian team captain Jonathan Munro Ford and his two English team mates Max Charlton and Jamie Morrison all in top form.
By the start of the third chukka, Cartier had banked a clear lead of 5-1.5.
In the third chukka, the brilliance of the game of Charlton came to the fore and he went on to show his skillset by scoring three memorable goals in the fourth chukka alone. One of them was an acrobatic backhander.
England prove hit on snow
Snow Polo - a most glamorous and unusual sporting event
Weather problems hit Snow Polo World Cup
Polo players: how to keep fit over the winter
"Reto Gaudenzi won the St. Moritz tournament five times—we want to repeat that," said Guillaume Alix, Managing Director of Cartier Switzerland.
After the game, Hyde said: "Yesterday’s game [against Badrutt’s Palace] was on of the best snow polo games I ever played in or anyone has ever seen," said Hyde. "The conditions were superb—today and yesterday, that’s the best I’ve ever played on."
Brilliant sunshine and prickling minus temperatures showcased the last day of the Snow Polo World Cup in St. Moritz.
Team Trois Pommes and Team Badrutt’s Palace faced each other in the La Martina Cup, competing for third place. Team Trois Pommes, uniting Cédric Schweri and Thomas 'Tutti' Wolfensberger, both Swiss, and the two Argentine pros Pepe Riglos and Piki Diaz Alberdi, went into the game with a half-goal handicap head start.
From the off, Team Trois Pommes put pressure into their game and went ahead with a lead of 2.5-1.
Pepe Riglos’ horse ran faster, giving him the decisive, goal-scoring edge in critical duels on several occasion. However, by the second half of the second chukka, Team Badrutt’s Palace—all players perfectly in synch —were making it clear that they weren’t going to be giving up third place easily.
Converting two penalty shots, Piki Diaz Alberdi brought Team Trois Pommes back into the game. But, ultimately, the formidable Irish team captain Richard Fagan and his three team mates Max Hutchinson, also Irish, Richard Le Poer Beresford and James Harper, both British, left the field with a 6-4.5 in favour of Team Badrutt’s Palace.
The debut of Reto Gaudenzi’s new organising team for the World Cup pulled off a successful event - more than 12,000 spectators attended the games.
"We worked hard and were faced with difficult weather conditions during the preparations. Today, we are proud to have made it a perfect success; it was simply sensational. That was St. Moritz at its best, and we will be back next year."
Semi-finals:
In a thrilling match set against the backdrop of the magnificent Engadine Valley below a bright blue sky, Team Cartier went on to victory against Team Badrutt’s Palace in the first of two semi-finals.
The ice lake was showing excellent ground conditions after a bitingly cold night.
In the first chukka for the Etihad Cup, Richard Le Poer Beresford (Badrutt’s Palace) and pro Chris Hyde (Cartier) shot their teams to scores level at 2-2. Then, Team Cartier, thanks to Hyde's play, got ahead of their rivals, increasing their lead to 3-5.
But Team Badrutt’s Palace, who on Friday had lost against Team BMW with just half a goal difference, were not ready to accept defeat. Quick and decisive actions, notably by Richard Le Poer Beresford (+6) and James Harper (+6), brought the scores back to a tie.
The scoreboard showed 5-5 at the start of the fourth chuka. With the prospect of the score even at the end of the regular fourth chukkas, a fifth chukka and a so called 'golden goal' may have decided which team made it into the finals.
But with 10 seconds before the extra time period, Hyde scored the goal which put the defending champions into the final. bringing the title defendant.
The second finalist was decided in the match for the Kempinski Trophy between Trois Pommes and BMW. Both teams had played in close matches the day before—Team Trois Pommes with the two Swiss players Cédrid Schweri and Thomas Wolfensberger alongside Argentine pros Pepe Riglos and Piki Diaz Alberdi.
Team BMW had the two pros Dario Musso (+7) and Lucas Labat (+6) forming a formidable unit, with the German Paolo Netzsch, and Italian team captain Rommy Gianni.
Team BMW entered the battle for the Kempinski Trophy fiercely, and at the midway point, had gained a lead of 3-0.
Early on in the third chukka, Team Trois Pommes was presented with the opportunity to close the gap. Piki Diaz Alberdi, six-time winner of the St. Moritz tournament, scored two 30-yarders into the undefended goal and, for a moment, with the score at 2-4, it seemed that Team Trois Pommes might pull the match back.
But the duo of Musso-Labat, playing supremely well, left the Swiss-Argentine team no room for manoeuvre and increased their team’s lead to a final score of 6-4 to reach the final.
We are looking for more polo clubs to be featured in the Telegraph during 2015. Email and

