Is Cristiano Ronaldo the worst possible team-mate for Gareth Bale?
By Rob Bagchi
1:03PM GMT 16 Mar 2015
Comments
After Real Madrid won their 10th European Cup last May, Ruud van Nistelrooy, Cristiano Ronaldo’s former colleague at both Manchester United and the Bernabéu, launched another critical assault on the player who had once so irritated him at Old Trafford.
When Ronaldo scored the final goal in the 4-1 victory over Atlético Madrid, ripped off his shirt and ran to the corner flag to celebrate on his own, Van Nistelrooy said: “Ronaldo's celebration isn't my thing. Very disrespectful to your team-mates, like they did nothing."
Strike a pose: Cristiano Ronaldo celebrates in the Champions League final
It was not the first time the Dutch striker had found Ronaldo’s behaviour galling – the showboating and ball-hogging during his early days at United made Van Nistelrooy, waiting in the centre for service, “look like a fool”, he said, and the frustration spilled over into a training-ground argument that effectively ended the prolific centre-forward’s stay at United.
In that context, Ronaldo’s histrionics during Real Madrid’s 2-0 victory over Levante on Sunday are nothing out of the ordinary. The faces he pulled and the shapes he threw during the game have littered his career. Lionel Blair could not do a better mime of exasperation – the shakes of the head, eye-rolls, air-swipes, smack-downs, hands on hips in classic double-teapot pose, the leaning backwards with palm placed at the base of the spine, impressions of Willem Dafoe's death scene at the end of Platoon, all accompanied with an array of gurning and rueful exhalation. They are the classic poses of a man who, despite all evidence, acts as if the world is against him.

Cristiano Ronaldo recreates Willem Dafoe's death scene from Platoon (AP)
The most remarkable thing about his animated displays of pique this time, however, is that it gave the impression that he was more preoccupied by a personal sense of injustice at not getting on the scoresheet himself than contentment that Gareth Bale finished off the chances, broke a nine-match drought and answered some of his critics in the crowd who have singled him out for jeers.
Ronaldo is no fool. He knows that a camera has been trained on him to capture every facial twitch throughout his six seasons at Real Madrid and yet he could not contain his annoyance, even though - when you look at the stats this season - Bale is no serious threat to Ronaldo's pre-eminence in the Spanish capital.

Character assessments have proliferated throughout the night, from petulant and churlish to Gary Lineker’s rebuke on Twitter last night
<noframe>Twitter: Gary Lineker - Ronaldo's extraordinarily stroppy reaction to Bale scoring from a rebound from his effort was bizarre and unhealthy.</noframe>
Criticising Ronaldo is not for the fainthearted as the numerous abusive responses, pointing out the uncontested fact that he ultimately did join in the celebrations, demonstrate. But while “stroppy” and “bizarre” are not insignificant reproaches, neither are they all that unusual. “Unhealthy”, though, is serious and damning if it is accurate.
It stems from the view that his ego has consumed him and stretches back to Real Madrid’s odd if faintly endearing insistence in the face of all objective evidence that Ronaldo remained the world’s most expensive player even after they had signed Bale for a higher fee.
If that, plus his body language when the winger took a shot instead of passing to him during the victory over Espanyol in January which sparked the barracking of the Welshman, suggests he has a problem with Bale, a pretender to his throne, it is not reciprocated. “‘Learning off the best player in the world is just incredible," Bale told last year. "He’s helping me become a better player, which is my constant goal. I’m trying to get up to his level."

Ire: Cristiano Ronaldo protests at Gareth Bale's decision to shoot instead of pass to him against Espanyol (Reuters)
Nor do other team-mates feel Ronaldo’s behaviour is unhealthy for team spirit. "It is difficult to be Cristiano and he has been performing at a very high level for a number of years," Sergio Ramos said on Sunday night. "He knows himself better than anyone, he has a very competitive character and we are not worried if he didn't score if Bale subsequently did. We have to appreciate what he brings to the team."
There you have it – they have “to appreciate what he brings to the team”, 293 goals in 285 appearances and spells when he believes the world revolves around him, when he constantly plays to the crowd and when he is perfectly aware that anything from a wink to a smirk to a scream will be endlessly dissected.

There are those who argue that the pursuit of individual awards – Balons d’Or, top scorer trophies – pervert a team game but it has never harmed either Manchester United or Real Madrid that Ronaldo does seem genuinely motivated to accumulate personal as well as team honours. Ask Sir Alex Ferguson about him and it’s not the skill but the drive and determination to be the best that his mentor extols.
Whether Bale can ever eclipse the world’s best player while the incumbent steals every scene is debatable but the contention that Ronaldo is his greatest problem at Real Madrid is less persuasive. Bale would doubtlessly rather cope with a limelight-devouring, serial mugger who sets up two goals for him however unintentionally, than endure another long spell without Luca Modric, his principal enabler, in the side.


