Manchester City line up Real Madrid manager Carlo Ancelotti to replace Manuel Pellegrini at end of season
By Mark Ogden, Northern Football Correspondent
10:30PM GMT 02 Mar 2015
Comments
Carlo Ancelotti will be short-listed to replace Manuel Pellegrini as Manchester City manager if the Chilean is dismissed at the end of the season.
Pellegrini, whose three-year contract expires at the end of the 2015-16 campaign, is facing an uncertain future at the Etihad Stadium with the club braced for the prospect of ending the season without a trophy.
And it is understood that Real Madrid coach Ancelotti, who has long-term admirers in the City hierarchy, will be considered alongside the likes of Pep Guardiola and Patrick Vieira, manager of City’s elite development squad, as potential replacements for Pellegrini.
The Italian is two years in to a three-year contract at the Bernabéu, but despite guiding Real to their 10th Champions League crown last May and steering them to the top of La Liga this season, he has yet to be rewarded with a new deal by club president Florentino Perez.
Manchester United had put Ancelotti at the top of their wanted list to replace the sacked David Moyes last April before turning to Louis van Gaal when it became clear that the former AC Milan and Chelsea manager would not be leaving Real last summer.
Why Man Utd and Liverpool will not both be playing Champions League football next season
Pellegrini project already shows signs of failure
Liverpool v Man City: Key match stats
Liverpool v Manchester City: as it happened
But although Ancelotti did little to encourage United’s interest a year ago, the 55-year-old is known to be prepared to return to the Premier League in the future.
Bayern Munich coach Guardiola’s close relationship with City chief executive Ferran Soriano and director of football Txiki Begiristain – whom he worked alongside at Barcelona – ensures that efforts will be made to assess his intentions with the German champions. However, Ancelotti’s proven track record in Europe and England, where he won the double with Chelsea, has been noted by the City board, which includes the Italian Alberto Galassi.
Pellegrini will be given the opportunity to salvage City’s season, with them retaining outside chances of success in both the Premier League and Champions League.
Sunday’s league defeat at Liverpool, which left City trailing Premier League leaders Chelsea by five points having played one game more than the Capital One Cup winners, followed last Tuesday’s 2-1 Champions League defeat by Barcelona in the first leg of their last-16 tie.
Pressure: Pelligrini's week went from bad to worse after defeat to Liverpool (AP)
Having been set a target of retaining the league title and making progress in the Champions League – Pellegrini was not expected to win the European Cup this season – the former Villarreal, Real Madrid and Malaga coach is in danger of falling short of his objectives, despite managing a squad that has been improved at the cost of almost £75 million since winning the championship last May.
Although Pellegrini works closely with Begiristain, who recruited the 61-year-old as Roberto Mancini’s replacement in May 2013, it is the manager, rather than the executive, who is most likely to pay the price for failure on the pitch.
Pellegrini’s success in delivering both the Premier League title and Capital One Cup in his first season in charge last year was regarded as vindication of the decision to dismiss Mancini, who had grown unpopular with players and staff during the latter part of his 3½-year reign. But in a similar fashion to Mancini, Pellegrini has found defending the title to be a greater challenge.
City have continued to be unimpressive in the Champions League under Pellegrini, whose reputation was forged by taking Villarreal to the semi-finals in 2006 and Malaga to the last eight in 2013, and the average age of the team suggests that a rebuilding programme will take place over the forthcoming transfer windows.
City face Leicester City at the Etihad Stadium on Wednesday, then visit Burnley a week on Saturday before travelling to the Nou Camp for the second leg of their Champions League tie against Barcelona on March 18.

