This puppy is the real winner of the Super Bowl
By Lauren Davidson
5:32PM GMT 02 Feb 2015
Comments
While the New England Patriots were beating the Seattle Seahawks in front of more than 100m people in the Super Bowl on Sunday, the story of a missing puppy and his horde of horse friends was stealing the nation’s hearts.
Lost Dog, the minute-long spot set to indie rock singer Sleeping At Last’s cover of I'm Gonna Be (500 Miles), has been shared 2,168,530 times online, giving Budweiser the most viral Super Bowl advert for the third year in a row, according to data from the video ad tech company Unruly.

This year’s share count trumps the beer brand’s chart-toppers from the last two years. Puppy Love from 2014, a similar tale to this year’s winner, racked up 1.31m shares after game day and currently has 2.91m, while 2013’s Brotherhood, in which a horse is reunited with its former owner, generated 1.5m shares following the Super Bowl and has now reached 2.04m shares.
However, the Anheuser–Busch InBev brand has yet to beat its own record. Budweiser’s 9/11 commercial, which aired during the Super Bowl in 2002, has 3.48m shares.
Femvertising: Advertisers cash in on #feminism
Superbowl adverts a bargain at $4.5 million
Christmas vs the SuperBowl: which ad season matters more?
Meet the British start-up that makes videos go viral
And while the American beer holds four of the top five spots when it comes to the most viral Super Bowl ads of all time, it is still millions of hits shy of the all-time champion. Volkswagen’s Star Wars-themed ad from 2011, showing a young boy trying to use The Force to power objects around his home, has been shared 5.28m times.
Overall, the top 10 most viral videos of 2015 garnered 4,485,297 shares, a hike of 82pc compared to the 2,460,075 shares that last year’s top 10 had collected the day after the Super Bowl.
But this year’s list of most popular online ads marks a notable shift from car commercials to movie trailers, which accounted for six of the ten most viral ads, including teasers for Terminator Genisys, Ted 2, Minions, Pitch Perfect 2 and 50 Shades of Grey.
This year also marked the first time that a commercial addressing domestic violence aired during the American football game, while commentators noted a shift to so-called dad-vertising, in spots from Dove, Toyota and Nissan -- the carmaker's first Super Bowl ad in 19 years -- where the father-child relationship is celebrated instead of portraying dads as lazy, clueless fools.

Sarah Wood, co-founder and chief operating officer of Unruly, said, “This year's chart is strikingly different from 2014 and is dominated by entertainment brands and movie studios, in particular, as big screen advertisers turn to the small screen to drive awareness of upcoming theatrical releases.”

Universal’s trailer for Fast and Furious 7 was shared more than 640,000 times, making it the second most viral Super Bowl advert this year, followed by the Finnish gaming company Supercell’s Clash of Clans -- which showed Liam Neeson taking revenge on another player who had demolished his virtual village -- in third place with almost 405,000 shares.

“Advertisers wanting to use the Super Bowl to drive digital buzz around their campaigns are up against stiff competition now -- competing with Hollywood for share of voice,” Ms Wood said. “The top 10 ads have a blockbuster feel, and if you have a sense of deja-vu, that's because five out of six are sequel trailers -- even Lost Dog is a sequel to previous Super Bowl ads.”
The Budweiser advert racked up the vast majority of its 2m-plus shares in the run-up to the sporting event, suggesting that the battle for advertising success is increasingly taking place on the internet, not the television screen.
"Budweiser's runaway success on social media indicates that the biggest opportunity for brand buzz at the Super Bowl is before the actual game kicks off,” Ms Wood said. “Not only did Lost Dog launch on the Wednesday before Super Bowl Sunday -- the optimal day for a Super Bowl launch -- it was also teased with multiple pieces of short-form content including Vines and animated gifs."
TV airtime for a 30-second advert cost $4.5m (£3m) this year, or $150,000 per second. According to CNBC, that much money “will buy 10 days of premium advertising on Twitter, four days on Facebook, five "masthead" ads on YouTube, and six-days worth of Snapchat's high-priced disappearing ads,” reaching from 50m to 100m users.
USA Today’s Ad Meter, which asks a consumer panel of roughly 6,700 people to rate the Super Bowl adverts, also declared Budweiser the winner, with an average vote of 8.1.
However, the consumer panel ranked Like A Girl from feminine hygiene brand Always second, with a score of 7.1, followed by Fiat’s Blue Pill in third place with 6.87.


