The extraordinary family battle for control of New Orleans Saints and a $2 billion fortune
By Philip Sherwell, New York
3:36PM GMT 30 Jan 2015
It is a bitter family rift that could come straight from the plot of a US soap opera, pitting a self-made tycoon and his third wife against his estranged heirs. At stake are the fate of a $2 billion empire and a famous American sports team.
In the latest twist to the saga, Tom Benson, 87, the business magnate and owner of the New Orleans Saints football club, this week faced demands from his own daughter and grandchildren that he undergo a mental examination.
They are disputing his capacity to make decisions – notably one particular recent decision. For Mr Benson, the only billionaire in Louisiana, announced last week that he was transferring ownership of the Saints and the New Orleans Pelicans basketball team to Gayle Benson, his wife of 10 years.
He has since lodged court filings questioning the competence of his daughter Renee Benson and her children Rita and Ryan LeBlanc to run his business empire, even though he groomed them for decades to take the reins.
That rebuff followed a strikingly terse letter that he apparently sent two days after Christmas in which he fired his heirs apparent as employees and barred them from Benson-owned premises.
The $88 million 'student pad’ and the record Russian oligarch divorce
Five of the most expensive divorces in legal history
Detroit fail to steal Knicks’ thunder
The “three R’s”, as they were known in business, were long ago anointed by Mr Benson as his successors, with Rita LeBlanc taking on the highest profile as he promoted her to co-owner of the Saints.
But it was also no secret within the hierarchy of the Saints, the winners of the 2010 Superbowl, that there was a growing animosity between Mrs Benson 67, a former interior decorator, and Ms LeBlanc, 38, once considered her grand-father’s favourite .

That hostility was well-known to insiders but a revelation this month to fans accustomed to seeing the two women photographed on either arm of Mr Benson at Saints and Pelicans games.
“It wasn’t just to gender-balance the portraits,” wrote Jeff Duncan, a Times-Picayune correspondent who has covered the family drama. “The two women can’t stand each other.”
In a war largely waged through anonymous briefings to local media, confidantes of Mr Benson have portrayed Ms LeBlanc as unreliable and abrasive, with a tendency to berate staff. Allies of “three Rs” have in turn depicted Mr Benson’s third wife as a profligate and domineering gold-digger.
What does not appear in dispute is that Mr Benson’s daughter from his first marriage and her children have never warmed to Mrs Benson, whom the two-time widower married in 2004. She has in recent years turned her husband into a prolific philanthropist, who has donated tens of millions of dollars to good causes, notably educational, in his native New Orleans and to sporting charities.
Lawyers for his ousted heirs have filed explosive court challenges seeking to throw out his decision to hand his wife ownership of the two sports franchises – worth an estimated $1.76 billion – and his banking, car dealership and ranching interests.
In filings this week, they alleged that Mr Benson has exhibited “a pattern of bizarre behaviour” and asked a court to order him he undergo an examination by a geriatric psychiatrist as they claim he is unable to make his own business decisions.

They cited the Dec 27 letter barring them from contact in their case, arguing that they did not believe it was written by the tycoon. His family also cited a recent episode when Mr Benson reportedly could not name the current US president, guessing first Ronald Reagan and then Harry Truman. Sources at the National Football League told the New Orleans Advocate that the confusion occurred after he was treated for concussion sustained when he fell from a podium.
Mr Benson and his lawyers have for their part asked a judge to dismiss the case, contending that they had no legal basis to challenge his wishes. They noted that the jilted heirs “are still beneficiaries of various trust interests that Mr Benson has established for them, and they will continue to enjoy the hundreds of millions of dollars they have been given”.
And their filing also rebutted headline-grabbing claiims by the “three Rs” that his diet under his wife’s guidance consisted largely of sweets, soft drinks, red wine and ice cream. Mr Benson has in fact hired a nutritionist to help him with his diet, “rendering claims about his eating habits even more absurd”, said the document.
"They've not alleged any facts that allege any specific infirmity with which Mr. Benson is afflicted that would prevent him from making consistent, reasoned business decisions or decisions with respect to his personal property," Phillip Wittman, his attorney, said in an interview with The Times-Picayune.
"They will continue to enjoy the hundreds of millions of dollars they have been given; they simply will not have the specific assets they would like to have.”
In the claims and counter-claims, his daughter and her children accused Mr Benson of trying to move hundreds of millions of dollars of assets out of trusts set up with them as beneficiaries.
Mr Benson built his fortune after starting his career as a bookkeeper and a salesman at a Chevrolet car dealership in New Orleans in 1948. In the ever-litigious world of America, what seems certain is that its fate will be determined in a Louisiana courtroom after a long and ugly legal battle.

