Arsenal transfer news: Liverpool target Theo Walcott as Raheem Sterling contract talks continue to stall
By Matt Law
10:30PM GMT 19 Mar 2015
Comments
Liverpool are monitoring Theo Walcott’s latest contract wrangle with Arsenal as Raheem Sterling continues to stall on signing a new deal.
Walcott will have a year to run on his Arsenal contract in the summer and manager Arsène Wenger last week admitted that negotiations would not be easy.
The situation has been further complicated by the fact that Walcott, who wants a rise on his £100,000-a-week wages, has not started regularly for Arsenal since returning from injury.
Walcott (centre) has not been a regular starter for Arsenal
Liverpool made an inquiry about Walcott before the England international signed his latest Arsenal contract in January 2013 and manager Brendan Rodgers remains a big admirer of the player.
Rodgers is being forced to consider his options in case Sterling does not sign a new deal after talks were shelved until the end of the season.
Did you know Telegraph Sport has an ?

Like Sterling, Walcott can play on the wing or through the middle and has the same devastating pace as the 20-year-old.
Sterling’s Liverpool contract does not expire until 2017, but Real Madrid and Bayern Munich are watching developments. Chelsea and Manchester City are also likely to take a keen interest.
Raheem Sterling's contract talks have hit a brick wall
Liverpool’s interest in Walcott is not necessarily completely dependent on the future of Sterling, as doubts linger over whether Mario Balotelli will remain at Anfield past this season.
Walcott may well wait until the summer to assess his future after seeing how often he starts before the end of the season. The 26-year-old was visibly frustrated at not replacing Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain in the FA Cup victory over Manchester United, but started the next game against West Ham and played 18 minutes as a substitute in Monaco.
Did you know Telegraph Sport has a ?

Liverpool’s chances of landing Walcott may rest on whether they secure a top-four place, as it is unlikely the former Southampton youngster would want to give up Champions League football.
Fifth in the Premier League and three points behind Wenger’s men, Liverpool face Arsenal at the Emirates on April 4 after this weekend’s clash against Manchester United.
Walcott (in action for Arsenal) grew up a Liverpool fan
Walcott, who grew up a Liverpool fan, and Sterling have been named in England manager Roy Hodgson’s squad for the Euro 2016 qualifier against Lithuania and friendly in Italy at the end of this month.
Sterling has been playing with a toe injury for Liverpool and is likely to be allowed to go back to his club after England’s game against Lithuania and miss the Italy trip unless it has fully cleared up.

