Lizzie Armitstead: La Course is a huge step for women
By Olivia Parker
7:00AM BST 05 Jul 2014
Comments
I live in the south of France, and most Fridays I head to Nice airport and catch a flight to wherever in Europe I’m due to race the following day. When I arrive, I catch up with the girls in my team [the Dutch Boels-Dolman group] over a hotel dinner. They can be pretty funny conversations because our various nationalities mean we don’t always understand each other.
After dinner we all get a sports massage – I enjoy the pain, in a weird way – and then it’s an early night watching Game of Thrones on my computer. I don’t mind hotel life but we share bedrooms so it’s pretty full on, and you soon work out which of your team-mates has the same habits as you. I compete in races on about 65 days in a year so I know how to switch off the nerves and don’t get too stressed if I can’t sleep.
On Saturdays, I wake up at about 8am and stick my headphones on (I’m loving Bastille at the moment, but I’ll take anything that’s not heavy metal) for a 20-minute ride on a stationary bike to kick-start my metabolism. Breakfast before a race is the best, because training is done and it’s all about piling in the calories, guilt-free. I like mine in the form of pancakes.
Normally, I’m on a highly regulated diet as the power-to-weight ratio is so important in road cycling. I aim to get my body as lean as possible. The daily routine is sugar-free muesli with berries for breakfast, bananas, flapjacks and water when I’m training (energy drinks all the time are not great for the teeth), salad for lunch and a protein with vegetables for supper.
I take a rest day every 10 days or so and that’s the only time I indulge and eat things I probably shouldn’t. However, I’ve been looking at the road race course for the Rio Olympics in 2016 and it’s so hilly I’ll need to lose weight when the time comes – that’s going to be difficult! My diet is already so good and my body is so efficient that I think losing weight is going to involve being hungry a lot of the time.
'I’m fast regaining my waist’ on The Fast Beach Diet:
Trott wins women's road race title
Yorkshire embraces Tour magic
Cycling is no longer a man's game
Sheep flock gets Tour 'jerseys'
Yorkshire cyclists excited by the Tour
My team has a manager, who directs us in our races, but it’s down to the individual to choose a coach and I’m slightly unusual in that I coach myself. I know my body the best and I trust my own judgment, even though it probably means I push myself harder. I do have mentors who I turn to for advice and they know me well enough to say when I’m doing too much.
I set my own training schedule every season by working backwards from the events that my team want me to peak in, and my next big target (having come third in the British road race last weekend) is the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow at the end of the month. In cycling you have to be able to move on when things don’t go to plan because our sport is not only down to physical ability but also tactics and other things that are out of your control. You get used to the losses.

Lizzie with Laura Trott, winner of this year's British Cycling National Road Championships race.
As soon as I’ve finished a race on a Saturday, I put on a comfortable tracksuit, have a recovery drink and get a flight home. Back at Nice, I take the non-glamorous route home – the bus – and go straight to sleep.
I live close to a lot of people in the sports world and a group of us have a fixed Sunday routine of meeting for lunch at an Italian restaurant in Monaco, La Saliére. I don’t even need to text – I know that at 1pm there’ll always be someone there about to tuck into a pizza.
Living in the south of France makes my job much easier because the weather is so good. I love the laid-back lifestyle and would never want to live somewhere like London, but I do miss my family in Yorkshire. As you read this, however, I’ll be back in my home county with them in my role as ambassador for the Festival of Cycling at Harewood House, to mark the start of the Tour de France. All my friends from home, as well of lots of like-minded cycling people are invited, so it’s not going to feel like work at all.
I’m excited that this year’s Tour will feature the first La Course event [an elite women’s race in Paris taking place just before the men’s peloton arrives] because it’s such a huge step forward for women’s cycling. It’s going to be really impressive and we need to make sure we put on a good show because we don’t normally have access to that kind of audience at all.
Bikes are my world but you could say I’m more of a fashion cyclist than someone who loves all the gadgets and components. Cycling enthusiasts, blokes in particular, often ask me what my bike is made of and I never know, and I avoid all those cycling apps because I like to keep what I’m doing away from my rivals. I do know where to get feminine cycle clothing from, however, and I know that feeling good in what you’re wearing is as important as having the right bike.
As much as I love my job, I really appreciate days off when I don’t wear a helmet and can have normal hair for once. If the weather is good I’ll head to the beach, or drive over the border to an Italian market. I’ll buy lots of fresh vegetables and nice Italian cheeses, then get my friends over for a glass of wine.
On Sundays nights, my family always gets together for a meal so I make sure I Skype my parents’ house to catch up with my sister and three-year-old niece. I see my family every couple of months, but being so far from home is definitely the hardest thing about my job.
IN SHORT
Herbal tea or stiff drink?
Herbal tea.
Best piece of cycling gear?
My Supernova Cycling kit (pictured, main), because it is feminine, nicely cut and technically very good, and it’s difficult to find that combination.
Advice you follow?
Don’t believe your own hype.
What makes you laugh?
My niece.
Last meal?
Cheesy potato wedges, baked beans and a cheese and onion pasty.
FIVE FAVOURITE THINGS?
Cheese
My family
Sunshine
Travel
My job
The adidas Supernova Cycling range is available at . Join in the conversation with #ridemore

