http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604285/s/3e0677a2/sc/38/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cfootball0Etransfers0C110A5570A10CTransfer0Edeadline0Eday0Enews0Eand0Erumours0Elive0Bhtml/story01.htm
Transfer deadline day: as it happened
By Alan Tyers (08.00-14.00), Jonathan Liew (14.00-18.30) Rob Bagchi (18.30 onwards)
12:55AM BST 02 Sep 2014
- Transfer deadline day, January 2015 – live
- The 10 biggest transfers that could happen today - Man Utd agree £20m loan deal for Radamel Falcao - The Incredible Transfer Rumour Generator - The 10 Manchester United players up for sale - Sport Explained: What is Transfer Deadline Day? - Premier League ins and outs | Champ | L1 | L2
Who do you want your club to sign? Are you In The Know? Have you seen any unwanted Jermains around the place? Is Wenger taking the mick by swanning off to Rome for a charideee match? Email with all your rumours and desires

00.55 Here is the state of play with the Radamel Falcao transfer. I don't fancy the Premier League's chances of shifting that paperwork tonight so I'm going to call this transfer deadline day blog complete. Come back in January for more QPR loan moves. Goodnight.
<noframe>Twitter: Mark Ogden - No concerns at <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23mufc" target="_blank">#mufc</a> over Falcao. Medical done, paperwork in, now just needs PL to sign it off. PL fairly busy tonight, though, oddly enough</noframe>
00.10 I'm afraid I'm having to head home and haven't been able to round up the last few stragglers. My colleague Evan Fanning will be here to bring you the confirmations of the dawdling Falcao, Welbeck and Ben Arfa deals. Good night.
00.02 Radamel Falcao has categorically not failed a medical says Sky. The paperwork is being ratified and there will be an announcement fairly soon.
0.00 No news is ... I'm not sure.
23.55 Manchester United are adamant that the rumours saying that Falcao has failed his medical rhyme with Horlicks if you're Irish.
23.54 Southampton have completed the signing of Salzburg midfielder Sadio Mane.
23.49 So we're still waiting for news on Falcao and Welbeck. Ben Arfa's in Hull. There are all sorts of rumours on Twitter about the reasons behind the delay for Falcao, centred, understandably, on the reason he wasn't at the World Cup.
23.40 Glenn Murray has left Palace to join Reading on loan.
23.38 Toby Aldeweireld has joined Southampton from Atletico on a year's loan.
23.34 In the words of Johnny Giles. Headbanger.
<noframe>Twitter: Leeds United FC - CONFIRMED: Matt Smith completes move to Fulham for an undisclosed fee and signs a 3-year deal with the London club <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23lufc" target="_blank">#lufc</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23DeadlineDay" target="_blank">#DeadlineDay</a></noframe>
23.30 Still no positive news on Falcao or Welbeck or, indeed, Ben Arfa.
23.15 Kevin Doyle has joined Crystal Palace on loan until January.
23.11 Morgan Amalfitano has signed for West Ham from Marseille.
23.07 We're still waiting for confirmation, then, of Falcao to Manchester United, Danny Welbeck to Arsenal, Hatem Ben Arfa to Hull City and Toby Aldeweireld to Southampton. Alvaro Negredo has joined Valencia on a season's loan from Manchester City and will sign for 30 million euros next summer.
23.01 But Jim White has left one glass slipper behind after he fled the gaff.
23.00 That's it the deadline has passed. All transfers not completed will have to be abandoned will be given as much time as they require. That's why, at heart, this is such a farcical notion. There is no deadline.
22.58 Arsenal have been granted their extension to sign Danny Welbeck.
22.57 Arsenal have applied for extra time to complete the signing of Danny Welbeck.
22.55 Jim White has just made love, metaphorically, to Tony Fernandes.
22.49 That famous soundbite that I cannot repeat without being chased off the premises has just been yelled at the Aston Villa correspondent. Suffice to say t'was FHRITP.
22.45 This sounds plausible. Hmm. Stewart King writes:
I'm a cabbie in Birmingham and have just dropped off Cleverley at VP.
But Valley Parade's in Bradford?? Any fule kno dat.
22.40

Welcome to the #QPR family, @sandroraniere! #SandroSigns pic.twitter.com/zxlbTBrMAP
22.38 We're still waiting for confirmation, then, of Falcao to Manchester United, Danny Welbeck to Arsenal, Hatem Ben Arfa to Hull City and Toby Aldeweireld to Southampton. Any more for any more?
<noframe>Twitter: Barry Hearn - Question - how do you push up footballers prices to even greater heights ? Easy to answer - create a transfer deadline and watch the chaos</noframe>
<noframe>Twitter: Luke Edwards - "<a href="http://www.twitter.com/HullCity" target="_blank">@HullCity</a>: NEW SIGNING: We are delighted to announce the signing of Gaston Ramirez on a season-long loan from <a href="http://www.twitter.com/SouthamptonFC" target="_blank">@SouthamptonFC</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23UTT" target="_blank">#UTT</a>" told u</noframe>
22.28 Clinton Carroll asks if there are any legs in the Nigel de Jong to Manchester United deadline busting deal that has been announced on another site? The straight answer is I don't know. But I suspect that it's not on given the lack of traction with the Manchester pack.
22.22 Everyone Ian Jones? Everyone? Generalisations are always misleading. Here's Chidiebere Ifoh
I think Danny Welbeck is a right bargain - judging by his age and Premier League experience... That lad has got great experience and should form a great partnership with Alexis Sanchez, Mesut Ozil and Aaron Ramsey... Wenger got it right again...
22.20 Breaking! Gus Poyet has returned to Sunderland's training ground. Who's he after? What's occurring?
22.19 Niko Kranjcar has taken a 66 per cent pay cut to rejoin QPR. And they have also signed Sandro.
22.14 Celtic have signed Stefan Scepovic from after a late about-turn scuppered his preferred move from Gijón to Getafe.
22.13 Ian Jones is on again.
Wow, I didn't realize EVERYBODY hated Danny Welbeck. I'm seeing a lot of Welbeck hate on twitter. Arsenal faced the facts. Welbeck is MUCH better than Yaya Sanogo, Podolski, or any other number of options Wenger currently has on the roster. yes it was a permanent move, but before determining how "terrible" he is, Arsenal fans should give him until Giroud is healthy again to truly judge his worth.
22.05 Morgan Amalfitano to West Ham is another we're waiting for confirmation on. Twitter suggests that Everton have been told to buy Tom Cleverley, a loan is not in United's interests, or do one. They have decided to do one.
22.00
Roy Hodgson, predictably, will pick Micah Richards in his next squad now.
21.58 What are we waiting for? Confirmation of Kranjcar to QPR. Welbeck to Arsenal. Falcao to Manchester United. Negredo to Valencia. Ben Arfa and Ramirez to Hull. Any other stragglers we need to see home?
<noframe>Twitter: Crystal Palace FC - James McArthur has signed a three year contract with Palace after joining from Wigan Athletic for an undisclosed fee. <a href="http://t.co/6hLUGbxzuD" target="_blank">http://t.co/6hLUGbxzuD</a></noframe>
21.42 A deal in principle between Arsenal and Manchester United has been agreed for the transfer of Danny Welbeck for about £16m.
21.41 The comedian Simon Brodkin has camerabombed Sky's man at Loftus Road, claiming, as Jason Bent, to have signed for QPR.
21.39 Celtic are going to announce the signing of Manchester City's John Guidetti on loan imminently. He scored 20 league goals for Feyenoord when he was on loan there for a season. If he's fit he'll score at least 25 this season I'd wager.
21.36 Nick Powell is in Leicester talking about a season's loan from Manchester United. Tom Lawrence is expected to arrive in a few minutes from Old Trafford to discuss a long-term transfer.
21.26 David Dean, Arsenal fan (unhappy one), asks
Is Sebastian Co-at-es, the son of Ralph? Did Ralph escape to Uruguay to escape the embarrassment of playing for Tottenham. You say Coates, I say Co-at-es.
Yes, yes he is, David. The son of the late Ralphie who moved to Montevideo after leaving Brisbane Road.
21.24 And so do we. The Danny Welbeck news is that it's not a done deal but it's getting closer and closer.
21.16 Sky carry on relentlessly. Business is now sport. Money is success. Hype is substance.
21.05 Luke Edwards has seen the most action at the southernmost tip of his patch:
Steve Bruce will be doing cartwheels after signing four players on deadline day. At least, he would if he could.
The signing of Hatem Ben Arfa, in particular, looks like a sensational acquisition. Newcastle fans will be furious about it too. He may have been frozen out of the first team and made to train with the reserves, but there is only one winner in his popularity contest with Alan Pardew and it isn't the Newcastle manager.
Looks like Ben Arfa will sign for Hull on loan. Not sure at the moment whether the same applies to Gaston Ramirez but I'm very reliably informed that he is also heading to Humberside from Southampton as I type this.
20.58 John Percy reports that Clevz to Villz is offz. Is that how you do it? The putative Tom Cleverley to Aston Villa deal is not going to bear fruit.
Aston Villa have pulled the plug on their £8million bid to sign Manchester United midfielder Tom Cleverley. Villa are frustrated after being notified late on Monday that Cleverley is not prepared to join the Midlands club, despite Paul Lambert agreeing a fee with United last week. Cleverley is believed to be holding out on a move to Everton, which is only likely to be loan, and it remains to be seen whether his gamble is rewarded. Villa had promised him first-team football and were happy to revive the 25-year-old's flagging career so if a move to Everton collapses, Cleverley could be facing a bleak future under Louis van Gaal.
<noframe>Twitter: Luke Edwards - Hull City are going to sign Ben Arfa from <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23nufc" target="_blank">#nufc</a> and Ramirez from Southampton. You can take this as gospel!</noframe>
No disrespect to Hull but Blimey. It brings to mind Diego Maradona's response when told that Martin Palermo had signed for Villarreal.
20.49 The Telegraph's Alan Smith has just announced on Sky that Arsenal have signed Danny Welbeck. He's had a text apparently. I know. I sent it to him.
20.46 Palace announce the signing of Zeke Manyika, out of Orange Juice

Sorry - Zeki Fryers, once of Manchester United and who joined Tottenham last year.
20.38 Niko Kranjcar has just walked into Loftus Road. He's good isn't he, 'Aitch? Spreads his net wide every year.
20.35 Given the colour perhaps it's an official Everton marital aid. Perhaps the club's biggest since Andy van der Meyde. B'dum tish.

20.32 Manchester United announce the signing of Colin GibsonDaley Blind. We had that news ages ago. Catch up United.
20.28 The priceless Scouse sense of humour is on display at Finch Farm where Sky's man on the ill-lit pavement is being menaced as he speaks of Tom Cleverley's intentions towards Everton by a kid waving something that used to be advertised as a 'marital aid'. About 10 inches worth of 'marital aid'.
20.23 The QPR news is as follows: Sandro is almost complete. Jermain Defoe is up for it but FC Toronto are less keen. Fabio Borini is miles off agreeing personal terms.
20.20 And this is why he's pure meat, Sam.

20.07 Sam Hill is sceptical about Radamel Falcao and seems to think he's a lettuce. Surely he's pure meat, Sam. Juan Mata is about to be salad*.
* It's late.
Falcao should score goals alright, but he's not what United need. If you don't have any bacon for a BLT - don't throw in more lettuce to make up for it. Van Gaal surely has to switch to 4-3-3 now, with a more stable foundation to support such a potent strike force. With the 3-5-2, United can't supply their strikers except for with hopeful long balls. Blind won't change that, just like Fletcher can't - the problem lies with inexperienced under confident players getting picked off when playing out from the back - and the width being easily stifled and closed down by opposition.
20.05 City/Sky insiders/sources confirm that Alvaro Negredo is off to Valencia on loan for the season with a view to a long-term deal.
19.58 They have announced that Jim White is ready. I'm surprised he doesn't come in wearing a canary boxing robe. Those of us who spent time in Scotland a couple of decades ago will have an indelible memory of a different era Jim. Scroll to two minutes and 13 secs to have a gawp yersels.

19.55 Palace are letting Glenn Murray go. In other news the ravens have left the Tower.
19.43 Ajax have announced that their sale of Daley Blind to Manchester United has completed. Am I being thick or am I right to think United have not signed a player from Ajax since Jesper Olsen?
19.40 And here is Ricky Alvarez in his Sun'lan' stripes.

19.30 Luke Edwards has news of slicky Ricky Alvarez's transfer to Sunderland. Sound the trumpets. It's done.
Sunderland made up for the disappointment of missing out on long term transfer target Fabio Borini with the signing of Argentina international Ricky Alvarez from Inter Milan.
Alvarez has joined on a season’s loan and Sunderland have agreed an option to buy Alvarez for £9m if he is a success at the Stadium of Light.
19.25 Sky are now saying that Arsenal are saying that Danny Welbeck is not having a medical at the Emirates and no deal is in place. "Contrary to other rumours" says the Sky man. He means the rumours he broadcast an hour ago. She said, I know what it's like to be dead. I know what it is to be sad. And she's making me feel like I've never been born.
Damian Durrant writes
A warning to would be Gunners: Giroud aside, Wenger seems to have ruined/taken off the boil/generally cheesed off/cause to leave in in a huff/ most of the goalscorers he has brought in recently. Consider Arshavin, Vela, Adebayor, Podolski et al - they start well then fade. Is everyone just a disappointment to Arsene after the beloved Henri?
Everyone is just a disappointment to most people after Henri, Damian.
19.17 Sky has caught up with Harry Redknapp who confirms that the Sandro deal is progressing tidily and Fabio Borini's people are in talks with the chairman. You didn't think he'd let the Loic Remy fee sit in QPR's bank for long did you? My word, the absurd size of parachute payments is giving some clubs a licence to spend today when even five years ago they would have been far more restrained. It's the last days of Rome.
19.10 Leeds fans will be intrigued to learn that duck-abusing Central African Republic forward Habib Habibou has left Genk for Rennes.
19.06 Here's one more for the Beatlemania-scale popular guess the transfer deadline day year:
Julio Baptista [Real Madrid - Arsenal] Loan Robert Huth [Chelsea - Middlesbrough] £6m Rickie Lambert [Rochdale - Bristol Rovers] £200,000 Javier Mascherano [Corinthians - West Ham] Undisclosed Carlos Tevez [Corinthians - West Ham] Undisclosed Antoine Sibierski [Manchester City - Newcastle] Undisclosed Dwight Yorke [Sydney FC - Sunderland] £200,000
19.03 Jim White hasn't appeared yet. They must be saving him for the last three hours. My ears are grateful.
18.57 Hull City Football Club have announced the signing of Mohamed Diamé from West Ham United Football Club. Have you noticed that managers who now routinely Barclays up their references to the Premier League now always call their clubs "football clubs" when talking about them? "At this football club." Helps eradicate confusion I suppose. The England captain Alastair Cook has fallen for this too. He always talks about winning/losing etc "games of cricket". What does he think we would think he was on about if he simply referred to winning "games"?
18.50 Sky reckons that Tom Cleverley is wanted by Everton who are keen to tie up a loan deal, but Manchester United would prefer to sell him. Roberto Martinez, of course, had him on loan at Wigan a couple of years back. Does that mean, if he goes there in preference to Villa, 'ull or Barnet, that the new Darron Gibson will have to oust the old at Goodison?
18.47 Radamel Falcao is on his way to Carrington, driving down a a leafy lane in a United Chevrolet. He must be desperate to join.
18.45 Do you want to play guess the summer transfer deadline day year? Of course you do. When were these the biggest deals of the day?
Ivan Campo [Real Madrid - Bolton] Loan Marc Edworthy [Coventry C - Wolves] Free Robbie Keane [Leeds U - Tottenham] £7m Teddy Lucic [AIK Solna - Leeds U] Loan
18.40 Luke Edwards ties up some of the loose ends on Wearside.
Sunderland have confirmed the signing of Sebastian Coates on a season's loan from Liverpool after turning down the chance to sign Micah Richards from Manchester City.
Coates was the preferred choice of head coach Gus Poyet and the 23-year-old Uruguay international will look to re-launch his career on Wearside after a miserable time at Liverpool.
The centre-back has earned 15 international caps, his last appearance coming against England in their World Cup group game.
The Black Cats should also confirm the loan signing of Inter Milan winger Ricky Alvarez shortly.
18.35 Good evening. So, Welbeck to Arsenal, eh? Following in the footsteps of Brain Kidd, Jimmy Rimmer and Mikael Silvestre in going straight from Manchester United to the Arse. Seems like United are so desperate to recoup some money they've taken leave of their senses. Why would they want to let him go for such a piffling sum (Telegraph liveblog sources* suggest it's £13m) to a rival for a top-four place.
* Arsenal fan in canteen
Ian Jones is happy about it.
This Welbeck to Arsenal rumor is what I was talking about. If Welbeck forces the move to Arsenal it's a MUCH needed upgrade over Sanogo/Podolski. He's young (only 23) and can find the back of the net. Arsenal's creative playing style would likely be able to get him the ball up close and he has a penchant for scoring goals. I'm just hoping this move works out. That being said, they still need a central defensive mid. Here's hoping!
18.30 With just 270 minutes remaining of the summer 2014 transfer window - or roughly the amount of time it takes Manchester United to score a goal - I'm handing over to Rob Bagchi for the exciting* night shift. Cheers for skim-reading.
*Excitement subject to circumstances
18.19 Here's Jeremy Wilson with details of what on earth is happening at Arsenal.
"Arsenal working on one deal. Interest in Welbeck but Utd would prefer he joins Spurs. Miyaichi, Miquel and Coquelin all likely to leave."
18.16 Harry Redknapp moving ominously into 11th-hour mode here. Sky claim Sandro is having a medical there, and Fabio Borini is still in talks. But what's this? He won't do an interview through his car window? What has become of the world?

18.13 Developments in the Danny Welbeck transfer. Reports now suggesting that he's turned up at the Arsenal training ground in an attempt to force a move. Sky saying he'd prefer a move to Arsenal rather than Tottenham because of Champions League football.
18.06 PA reporting that Arsenal's Francis Coquelin could be on his way to QPR on a season-long loan. Harry Redknapp clearly still after a central midfielder, and he's running out of time to get Sandro from Tottenham.
18.00 Mark Ogden has more details of Radamel Falcao's contract at Aston Villa Manchester United. He's going to be earning an eye-boggling, mind-watering £346,000 a week.
"Radamel Falcao’s season-long loan to Manchester United will cost the Old Trafford club a staggering £24 million, with the forward’s £346,000-a-week Monaco salary being paid in full by United.
United have secured the biggest coup of transfer deadline day by completing a loan deal for the Colombian forward, with an agreement in place for manager Louis van Gaal to sign the 28-year-old on a permanent basis next summer.
But the cost of signing Falcao, who had also been offered to Manchester City, Arsenal and Real Madrid, will inflict a significant dent in United’s bank account with the club also paying a £6 million loan fee to Monaco."
Here's the full story.
17.43 Jermain Defoe is on the move... but where? Matt Law has all the answers:
"Leicester City are emerging as surprise favourites to sign Jermain Defoe on loan with a view to a permanent move.
Arsenal passed up the chance to sign Defoe from Toronto FC earlier today and Queens Park Rangers have cooled their interest in the former Tottenham man.
That leaves Leicester as the club most likely to sign Defoe, barring any late developments or changes of heart.
Defoe will have to lower his £90,000-a-week wage demands to complete a return to the Premier League, but his determination to move back to England is likely to see the 31-year-old do that.
With time running out on transfer deadline day, Leicester are likely to try to sign Defoe on loan until the January window with a view to making the transfer permanent in the New Year."
17.30 It's one in, one out at Tottenham. Lewis Holtby has completed his season-long loan to Hamburg.
17.29 DONE DEAL at Tottenham. Benjamin Stambouli, a defensive midfielder, has signed from Montpellier. About £4.7 million is the fee that's been trailed for that one. He's highly rated at Montpellier, captaining the club at 23, and can also play in defence.
But here's the big question. How happy does he look?

Not bad.
17.25 Some big, big news for you now. Two Champions League strikers on the move...
<noframe>Twitter: Stade de Reims - <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23SDR" target="_blank">#SDR</a> - Officiel : David N'Gog rejoint le <a href="http://www.twitter.com/Stade_de_Reims" target="_blank">@Stade_de_Reims</a> pour deux ans ! <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23TousRougeEtBlanc" target="_blank">#TousRougeEtBlanc</a> <a href="http://t.co/ZPnInIGM97" target="_blank">http://t.co/ZPnInIGM97</a></noframe>
<noframe>Twitter: Sheffield Wednesday - BREAKING: <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23transferdeadlineday" target="_blank">#transferdeadlineday</a> Owls sign former Real Madrid star Royston Drenthe on loan deal from <a href="http://www.twitter.com/ReadingFC" target="_blank">@ReadingFC</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23swfc" target="_blank">#swfc</a></noframe>
17.17 Arsenal fans. What do you think of all this nothing that's been happening? Here's Ian Jones:
At this point I'm just hoping all of this talk of poker from Wenger means that secretly they are still very much in the hunt for a world-class striker. Yaya Sanogo is not the answer as a replacement for Giroud until January, he just looks plain awkward on the pitch, and Podolski looked bad as well against Leicester. Probably much too hopeful. Here's to another year gunning for that fourth place spot rather than some PL silverware.
17.12 Chelsea's Marco van Ginkel has gone on loan to AC Milan. This is now official.
17.05 Jeremy Wilson has his ear to the ground* and gives us the latest from Southampton. *probably actually phone
"Southampton have rejected Tottenham's latest bid for Jay Rodriguez and are no longer interested in Andros Townsend. Southampton are also close to signing Belgium defender Toby Alderweireld and have bid around £11.5 million for Salzburg winger Sadio Mane. Norwich's Nathan Redmond is an option if the Mane deal does not get completed."
Top player, Redmond. Definitely worth a £7-£8 million punt, if you ask me. And again, I'm aware nobody has.
17.00 Luke Edwards has more on the Abel Hernandez transfer.

16.58 Carl Jackson writes on What This All Means For Manchester United:
"It would be nice to get another player in who has some sort of desire to see our own half… Love the Falcao buy, it would have just tasted a little sweeter if it had followed Hummels/Benatia!
Woodward has definitely gone up in my estimations after Di Maria, Blind and Falcao… but let’s hope he can pull off a defender or two… At this time I would be happy with Vlaar or Shawcross… Hell I’d be happy if we got William Prunier back in!
I also think they should just throw £25m at Southampton to get Schneiderlin…probably being a bit greedy now though!"
16.57 In EURO NEWS, Jonathan Biabiany has signed for AC Milan from Palermo. Most people know only one thing about Biabiany, and it's this: he's bloody quick. In fact, Biabiany is one of those players whose global fame is almost entirely down to his pace statistics on Fifa, and in almost no part down to his performance on a football pitch. The fact that he's just signed for Milan says a lot more about their plight than his ability if you ask me, which I'm aware nobody did.
16.46 Here's Matt Law with the latest on Tottenham's pursuit of Danny Welbeck.

16.43 Child behind Gary Cotterill is clearly having the time of his life. A greater time, possibly, than anybody has ever had at QPR's Harlington training ground.

16.36 It wouldn't be deadline day if Stoke City didn't sign a mercurial winger. Odemwingie! Arnautovic! Pennant! Tuncay! Henri Camara! And John Percy says they're close to another...
Persistence pays off for Mark Hughes, who is on the verge of signing Liverpool winger Oussama Assaidi on loan for the season.
Hughes has revived his attempts to sign Assaidi due to serious concerns over Peter Odemwingie's knee injury and is close to taking the Morocco international, with Stoke paying a £1million loan fee.
Stoke had also considered Tottenham Hotspur's Aaron Lennon and Manchester City's Scott Sinclair but Assaidi was always the No. 1 option after he impressed on loan last season.
This will also be good news for Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers who has been determined to offload his fringe players in a bid to trim his squad.
16.24 Philip Podolsky, talk sense at me.
"Falcao might be a great signing if he precipitates, or just provides a pretext for the 'rethinking' of Rooney's role in the side, which is very much to say the marginalization of Rooney. He's most predictable and static player in their forward line nowadays."
16.21 It's been a quiet day so far for West Ham, but Sky Sports are saying that they may be about to close a deal for French midfielder Morgan Amalfitano. He was at West Brom last season, you may remember, where he did this:

...and this.

16.18 Are Burnley in the market for Anderson? No, says Mark Ogden.
Despite suggestion emanating in Portugal, Burnley are not attempting to secure a loan deal for Manchester United midfielder Anderson.
The Brazilian made a brief appearance as substitute during Saturday's 0-0 draw at Turf Moor, but it appears he did not do enough to prompt Sean Dyche into a deadline day swoop...
16.17 Does anyone else find it mildly alarming that Danny Welbeck is on £105,000 a week? Does anyone else think that's completely insane?
16.15 Danny Welbeck is training with the England squad at the moment, but according to Matt Law, his loan move to Tottenham is still very much on.
Tottenham remain hopeful of signing Danny Welbeck until the end of the season, but do not want to pay more than a £2million loan fee to Manchester United.
United are believed to be after as much as £5m to let Welbeck leave Old Trafford on loan, but it is unlikely that figure will be matched.
Welbeck met up with the England squad this morning, but can easily get across to Tottenham’s Enfield training base to complete a move.
Everton paid around £2m to take Romelu Lukaku on loan from Chelsea last season and Spurs do not feel they should pay more for Welbeck, particularly as they would have to take on his £105,000-a-week wages.
Tottenham chairman Daniel Levy explored the possibility of signing Wilfried Bony from Swansea, but was put off by his £19m valuation.
Spurs are still reliant on getting senior players out of the door to bring anybody in, with Sandro, Aaron Lennon and Roberto Soldado and Lewis Holtby all potentially leaving.
A fresh move for Southampton forward Jay Rodriguez now looks like it will be delayed until January when he is fit.
16.13 Luke Edwards has the skinny on Abel Hernandez:
You read all about it in the Daily Telegraph last week, but Hull City have confirmed the signing of Uruguay international Abel Hernandez in a club record deal.
By club record deal what they probably mean is most of the £12m they received from Southampton for Shane Long and only time will tell whether Hernandez is an upgrade on the Irishman.
Steve Bruce was certainly very excited about the signing when I spoke to him last week so fingers crossed Hull haven't signed a dud.
The statistics would suggest they haven't. Hernandez may struggle to get into the Uruguay side when Luis Suarez isn't banned, but he has scored seven goals in 14 internationals, which is good by anyone's standards.
He also scored 14 goals for Palermo last season and will give Hull a fresh spark in the final third. I think it's a good signing, personally.
16.11 A question from David Nemeth:
"Is Transfer Deadline Day a day off from work for all professional footballers? It seems as though they need to be ready on a moment's notice to hop in a car or head off on a plane."
That's the main reason Steven Gerrard never left Liverpool. He refused to take a day off work on deadline day.
16.06 Football fans can be mean. Even to their own club.

16.02 Harry Redknapp has made his move! More from Chris Bascombe:
Fabio Borini has a decision to make and it no longer just involves Sunderland. Liverpool have accepted a £10 million bid from QPR for the striker. It’s now up to the Italian to decide his destination.
15.58 Take Abel Hernandez's transfer to Hull City out of the oven: it's DONE. Club have finally confirmed it. It's a club record fee - so about £10 million, something like that - and he's signed a three-year contract with the highly optimistic option of a fourth.
15.52 Now, maybe this doesn't seem that exciting on first glance, but trust me, it is. Chelsea have announced that Nathaniel Chalobah is going out on a season-long loan. So, how does this differ from his three previous loans? Because he's going to Burnley. In the Premier League. I'm a huge Chalobah fan - he's a really promising English midfielder who could really do with some games before he disappears into the Cobham Vortex of Lost Souls (see also McEachran, Kakuta, about 200 others). Premier League loans revitalised the careers of Daniel Sturridge, Jack Wilshere and Danny Welbeck. Now we'll see whether Chalobah really does have what it takes. Here's a taste of what he can do.

Excited yet?
15.50 Abel Hernandez has put a picture of himself at Hull's training ground on his official Facebook page and said he has signed a four-year deal. Still no confirmation from Hull.
15.46 Andrew Johnson and Florent Malouda to Crystal Palace? Well, that would be weird. According to the Croydon Advertiser:
The Advertiser understands former Palace hero Johnson, 33, and former Chelsea winger Malouda, 34, were due at the club’s Beckenham base for a practice match today involving the youth team but it was called off at the last minute.
Obviously Andy Johnson gets linked with a move back to Palace every transfer window and will continue to be linked to Palace for every subsequent transfer window, probably until he dies. Malouda is more intriguing. He's just left Trabzonspor after a deeply unsatisfying season, but he's still only 34.
15.41 Latest video blog from Jeremy Wilson, in which he says Arsenal's transfer deadline day is "fizzling out".

15.35 #bantz
<noframe>Twitter: Joseph Barton - Keep it to yourselves Lionel Messi just landed at our place in a helicopter. Not sure he'll get a game but definitely improves the squad.</noframe>
15.34 Anyway, enough shenanigans. Here's Luke Edwards with some NEWCASTLE TRANSFER NEWS.
Newcastle appear to have made room in their squad for a new arrival as French defender Mapou Yanga-Mbiwa is set to sign for Roma on a season's loan.
On the face of things, Newcastle have offloaded a player who was fourth-choice in his favoured centre back role, but I'm not entirely sure a mid-table Premier League club can "offload" a player to an Italian one that will be playing in the Champions League this season.
Yanga-Mbiwa should have been a far better player for Newcastle than he was. A full France international and captain of reigning champions Montpellier when he arrived, he has never looked comfortable playing for manager Alan Pardew.
Whether it is Pardew or Yanga-Mbiwa who is to blame for the move turning sour depends on your point of view, but Newcastle never saw the best of a player who should have been - on paper at least - a fine addition to the squad when he joined in January last year.
Perhaps Yanga-Mbiwa's greatest contribution achievement in English football - perhaps even global football - was making people feel sympathy for Samir Nasri.

15.30 This day is happening too quickly for me. I just wish I could freeze time, you know? Savour every moment.
<noframe>Twitter: James Brennan - If Aston Villa buy Sergio, will the city of Birmingham have more Canales than Venice? <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23avfc" target="_blank">#avfc</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23canales" target="_blank">#canales</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23canals" target="_blank">#canals</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23joke" target="_blank">#joke</a></noframe>
15.29 Part II of Dharmesh Sheth's screen test for Green Street.

15.26 "Talk to the hand!" Once seen, this video cannot be unseen.

15.23 Jeremy Wilson has filed his video blog on all the latest wheelings and dealings at QPR. First thought: his pictures need a bit of straightening.

15.22 Bad news for QPR fans. And Lassana Diarra fans. And Harry Redknapp fans. Jeremy Wilson with more:
Lassana Diarra's proposed deal to QPR is off. Harry Redknapp had been confident of getting it done - still wants Sandro, Kranjcar and Defoe.
15.04 Aston Villa in "buying someone good" shocker! More from John Percy:
Paul Lambert has made a bid for Real Sociedad's attacking midfielder Sergio Canales. The former Spain under-21 international, 23, has been targeted for a move to the Premier League by Lambert and Sociedad are considering the offer. Villa are still waiting on an answer from Manchester United midfielder Tom Cleverley, but their move for Canales could suggest they are moving on to other targets.
I remember watching Spain under-19s take England apart at the Euros in Normandy a few years ago. Canales was the best player on the pitch: deft, inventive, seemingly x-ray vision. After leaving Real Madrid, though, he's not kicked on. He did OK at Valencia, and then quite well at Real Sociedad last season, but potentially he's better than that. Just look at some of the other players in that Spain squad: Koke, Thiago Alcantara, Martin Montoya. That's the bracket Canales should be in. If Lambert can get the best out of him, that could be a formidable piece of business.
14.55 An email from the promising young live-blog reader Chidiebere Ifoh:
I wonder why Arsenal and Arsene Wenger would want to allow Jermain Defoe's deal slip past them... That dude has got a lot of Premier League experience, and would be better off than their struggling forwards...
14.53 From PA: French defender Mapou Yanga-Mbiwa is set to complete his season-long loan move to Roma from Newcastle in the next few hours. Yanga-Mbiwa arrived at Rome's Fiumicino Airport on Monday and is reportedly browsing the men's magazines in WH Smith undergoing a medical before completing his Serie A switch.
14.51 With hindsight, Manchester City's summer 2012 transfer business is taking on an increasing air of folly. It's so much harder to say no to a manager who's just won the title, and yet history suggests sometimes that's exactly what you should do. In 1995, Kenny Dalglish decided that what Blackburn needed to retain the Premier League title was Lars Bohinen, Billy McKinlay and Matty Holmes. Chelsea fans, meanwhile, will always remember the infamous summer of 2006, when Roman Abramovich's lust for stars led to the signing of Michael Ballack, Andriy Shevchenko and Khalid Boulahrouz.
14.41 Mark Ogden has more on Scott Sinclair's possible move to Stoke, plus other Manchester City news:
Stoke City are attempting to thrash out a deal to take Manchester City winger Scott Sinclair to the Britannia Stadium.
Sinclair, a £6m buy from Swansea in August 2012, has been told he can leave the Etihad after spending last season on loan at West Brom.
Micah Richards is on the brink of sealing a loan to Fiorentina, which will cost the Italian club a £1m loan fee, while Newcastle, Arsenal and Spurs are all attempting to sign City centre-half Matija Nastasic.
Meanwhile, Alvaro Negredo will be allowed to complete a loan move to Valencia with a view to a permanent summer transfer.
14.36 Tottenham Hotspur footballers Tomislav Gomelt and Souleymane Coulibaly have joined Italian Serie B side Bari. And so another "new Didier Drogba" bites the dust. Great things were expected of Coulibaly at Tottenham, but he got very few chances in the first team, despite this undeniably good goal:

14.34 Danny Gabbidon is returning to Cardiff as a player-coach. The 35-year-old trained with Cardiff over the summer and is currently a free agent after being released by Crystal Palace in... I actually can't finish this sentence, I'm boring myself.
14.31 Scott Sinclair. Be honest: when was the last time you thought of Scott Sinclair? There's a guy who's made the wrong choices in life. Mark Ogden on who may be about to take him away from Manchester City, very possibly with an arm around him and a blanket draped around his shoulders:
<noframe>Twitter: Mark Ogden - Stoke trying to do a deal for Scott Sinclair at <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23mcfc" target="_blank">#mcfc</a>. Would see the last of Mancini's disastrous 2012 signings cleared out..</noframe>
<noframe>Twitter: Mark Ogden - Looking back, Sinclair, Javi Garcia, Maicon, Rodwell and Richard Wright all flopped. Nastastic did well initially, but fell away...</noframe>
14.28 Whither Oussama Assaidi? Chris Bascombe has news:
Oussama Assaidi’s on-off-off-off-still off-on move to Stoke could now be back on. Assaidi’s wage demands have prevented a permanent deal all summer but the clubs are discussing a loan deal this afternoon. Liverpool want the winger to leave for good, and Stoke are eager to sign him. But with Assaidi seemingly unable to agree a longer-term contract, another temporary arrangement – similar to that took him to the Britannia Stadium 12 months ago – is on the cards.
14.26 George Boyd explaining why he signed for Burnley: "I want to be playing in the Premier League. It's fair to say I wasn't going to be involved at Hull. At my age, I want to be playing every week."
I like George Boyd. I really do. I just wonder whether he's actually Premier League quality.
14.23 Here's the latest from Matt Law on Arsenal and Jermain Defoe:

14.20 Manchester United transfer update! This from Mark Ogden:
Jostein Flo, the Stromsgodset sporting director, has ruled out the prospect of fifteen-year-old midfielder Martin Odegaard leaving the club for Manchester United today.
United scouted the teenager on his full debut for Norway against the United Arab Emirates, but Old Trafford interest is understood to be over the long-term rather than with a view to an immediate move.
Odegaard has missed out on selection for the Norway squad for Wednesday's friendly against England at Wembley, instead being called up for the Under-21s, and Drammens Tidende, the local paper in Stromsgodset, has been assured by Flo that no move to United is imminent.
14.15 Afternoon, everyone. Well, isn't this exciting? One player on his way out is Modibo Diakite, one of those players Sunderland signed during the Great Summer Spree of 2013. He's left the club "by mutual consent" and Fiorentina are favourites to snap him up. At least he lasted longer than Roberto di Fanti.
14.00 I am handing over to the mighty Jonathan Liew. Happy transfer deadline day! Cheers.
13.57 Matt Law now on the fortunes of the Hammers.
WEST HAM’S search for a new central defender has now turned towards Lazio’s Michael Ciani.
The Hammers withdrew their interest in Micah Richards over his £80,000-a-week wage demands and failed in a bid to sign Matija Nastasic on loan from Manchester City.
Ciani is the next man on West Ham’s list with the club still trying to push through a defensive signing before the transfer window shuts.
The 30-year-old Frenchman has won one senior international cap and has made 34 Serie A appearances for Lazio since joining the Italian club in 2012.
13.55 Paul Hayward on Falcao. "I doubt this is a good move for Man United," he says.

13.51 And here is reader James Murray, who says:
Just sitting waiting for the news of Ronaldo at Ibrox....
The Fat Brazilian One, mebbes. Imagine him and Kris Boyd up front in the queue for the Ibrox canteen.
13.44 An email arrives from Scholtz Fourie, who writes:
As a Ajax Cape Town supporter who also supports Arsenal in the EPL, I must say it can be very frustrating. Ajax, like Arsenal have the knack off over-relying on the youth system. In a league where teams like Sundowns (the City and Chelseas of the PSL) buy up our players and end up destroying their careers, the similarities between the teams I love so dearly has me reeling.
This season it seems as if the development players are coming through strongly for Ajax and we are sitting pretty in 2nd spot, I doubt Arsenal will be able to do the same in a league as competitive as the EPL. I believe we have extremely good players and I tend to agree with Mr. Wenger that you can’t throw money at every loss or drawn game. Give Yaya Sanogo some time, Walcott is coming back and Joel Campbell will also play a part. Why not invest in a Falcao or Cavani and win the league? Why not sell fringe players like Podolski? In Arsene we trust.
13.43 Ah, AVB. Was wondering where you had got to...

Not pictured: AVB's dignity
13.40 Matt Law now with the inside track on Arsenal and Jermain Defoe

13.35 A splendid work of scholarship now from Mr Oliver Pickup, who now knows more about Radamel Falcao than he probably ever wanted or needed to know.
My favourite: he nearly joined Aston Villa in 2008. Marlon Harewood was playing up front for Villa at the time.
Radamel Falcao: 21 things you should know about the new Manchester United striker
13.31 One man yelling yah-boo-sucks to the Transfer Deadline Day fun is Josh Warwick. He says it's "over-hyped, vulgar and deeply unsatisfying, a true celebration of the grotesque". Have at it, Josh.
Welcome to the great celebration of the grotesque: the day when we disconnect our collective moral compass for 24 hours and smother ourselves in a stinking slurry of financial and ethical depravity.
Transfer Deadline Day - now so ingrained in the public psyche it enjoys its own ‘TDD’ abbreviation - is the ultimate manufactured occasion, more objectionable even than Father’s Day and Cyber Monday.
Read more of Why I Hate Transfer Deadline Day
13.28 More from Jeremy Wilson on Arsenal.
Aside from Miquel being allowed to join Norwich, still no expectation of deals at Arsenal. Turned down Jermain Defoe and feeling was that Radamel Falcao deal was not financially realistic, especially given that he is 28. One other fringe Arsenal player who is likely to leave today is Ryo Miyaichi to Feyenoord.
13.25 Hernandez has joined Real Madrid on loan. They have an option to buy him at the end of the season. That kid must love being a sub. Reader Wayne Hardy emails to say:
I wonder if Hernandez is sat on the bench when Real Madrid present him to the fans.
13.24 It's the man who bestrides Transfer Deadline Day like a melty faced colossus. It's Harry Redkapp! And it's Jeremy Wilson with the news:
Harry Redknapp is actively attempting to complete deadline day deals at Queens Park Rangers for Sandro, Jermain Defoe and Niko Kranjcar, as well as Lassana Diarra.
The Diarra transfer should be announced imminently but the club are also working on further reinforcing the central midfield with Sandro, who played under Redknapp at Tottenham. Redknapp is also interested in signing Defoe following the £10.5 million sale to Chelsea of Loic Remy. Defoe is in London and available following a spell with Toronto FC, with QPR currently exploring the possibility of a deal.
There is also interest in other strikers, including Ajax's Kolbeinn Sigthorsson, Liverpool’s Fabio Borini and Dynamo Kiev's Jeremain Lens. Arsenal earlier turned down the chance to sign Defoe. Kranjcar spent a year on loan at QPR and Redknapp would also like to include him in his squad this season season but that deal is currently more complicated. Shaun Wright-Phillips will be allowed to leave QPR today and the club are also no longer interested in Aaron Lennon.
13.21 Want to watch Mark Ogden explain why signing Falcao is a coup for Man United? Then check this out.

13.15 What else? Ah yes, here is Matt Law.
MANCHESTER CITY outcast Matija Nastasic is set to turn down loan moves to West Ham and Everton.
West Ham expressed an interest in Nastasic today after withdrawing their bid for Micah Richards, while Everton have asked about taking the 21-year-old on loan as they look for defensive reinforcements.
But it is understood Nastasic is not keen on either move and is prepared to stay at City if he cannot find the right deal.
Arsenal have made an enquiry over Nastasic, but City are reluctant to sell to their rivals. It remains to be seen whether that stance changes if the player refuses to go anywhere else.
13.12 I have fallen behind the times, easily done on TDD if you leave the desk for a few minutes. Just to recap - and apologies if any of the following is old fashioned.
Jeremy Wilson says: "Told Arsenal not interested in Jermain Defoe."
Jackie Wilson says, "I'm in heaven when you smile" but that's another story.
Here is John Percy: "Neil Warnock likes strikers. He is understood to be keen on taking Ipswich's David McGoldrick and has inquired about Leicester's New Zealand international Chris Wood. Ironically, McGoldrick was the subject of a £5million bid from Leicester last week which was turned down but Palace are now more the most likely to get him. Wood almost joined Wolves earlier this summer and Warnock has asked Leicester about taking him as well, though Nigel Pearson may want to keep him at the King Power Stadium."
13.08 Check out this excellent state-of-play on Project Babb. Who is winning transfer deadline day?
13.07 Thanks Cameron. Tyers here.
13.06 Huh? Who's that? Oh it's Alan T again. Refreshed from his brief sojourn to the canteen. *Sound of reins being handed over.*
13.02 News from Vicarage Road where they need a manager following Beppe Sannino's resignation.
"Watford have signed Real Betis utility man Juanfran for £500,000, not to be confused with the Atletico Madrid right-back of the same name."
12.59 Gossip mongers have linked Schalke's Austria international left-back Christian Fuchs with a move to Hull City. The folks at the Bundesliga club beg to differ though, insisting the 28-year-old is schtaying püt.
12.54 L'Equipe are reporting that West Ham are considering signing Lazio defender Michael Ciani on loan. Ciani made 24 appearances in all competitions last season for Lazio and could bolster the Hammers' shaky defence.
12.49 It's sometimes easy on days like this to forget why clubs are prepared to throw such ridiculous sums around. So let's spend a short time forgetting that Radamel Falcao is a very spendy commodity and look at what he can do on the pitch.

12.47 News from Upton Park now. "I am the Law."
"West Ham outcast Matija Nastasic is set to turn down loan moves to West Ham and Everton. West Ham expressed an interest in Nastasic today after withdrawing their bid for Micah Richards, while Everton have asked about taking the 21-year-old on loan as they look for defensive reinforcements..."
12.45 Our man in the north Mark Ogden has filmed a little Falcao-related clip for your delectation.

12.43 More from John Percy. This time we go to south London.
"Neil Warnock likes strikers. He is understood to be keen on taking Ipswich's David McGoldrick and has inquired about Leicester's New Zealand international Chris Wood. Ironically, McGoldrick was the subject of a £5million bid from Leicester last week which was turned down but Palace are now more the most likely to get him. Wood almost joined Wolves earlier this summer and Warnock has asked Leicester about taking him as well, though Nigel Pearson may want to keep him at the King Power Stadium."
12.40 It seems that pesky red tape means Falcao must join United on loan:
<noframe>Twitter: Saif Rehan - Jorge Mendes [Falcao's agent]: "It is a permanent deal but due to the fair play rules the first year must be a loan." <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23MUFC" target="_blank">#MUFC</a></noframe>
12.37 Defoe's potential move may well be pie in the sky but one thing that may happen is this. Over to Jeremy again:
"One piece of transfer business that is likely today at Arsenal is Ignasi Miquel moving to Norwich City. Miquel, who is 21, has played only eight Premier League matches for Arsenal but his departure does leave even fewer options for Arsene Wenger at centre-back following the summer departures of both Thomas Vermaelen and Bacary Sagna."
12.34 Arsenal need a striker to fill in for Giroud and who better than diminutive poacher and former Spurs striker Jermain Defoe? Matt Law has the straight dope.
Defoe offered to Arsene Wenger on loan deal
12.24 Afternoon, out-of-control capitalism fans. Chris Bascombe has radioed in from Merseyside.
"QPR have made contact with Liverpool regarding Fabio Borini, but no bid as been lodged yet. It seems Harry Redknapp is working on other targets but the Italian may become a back-up option as the day progresses. Borini has been the subject of a £14 milion from Sunderland but Liverpool are increasingly resigned they will not be receiving such a fee if Borini leaves today. Inter Milan are also showing interest in the striker."
12.20 I am leaving you in the capable hands of Cameron Macphail for a few mins. TTFN.
12.18 Updates about my own personal Transfer Deadline Day dream team: Harry and Gary.
<noframe>Twitter: Samuel Luckhurst - Gary Cotterill is crestfallen after he missed Redknapp, who drove past him.</noframe>

12.15 Thom Gibss's's's's excellent Sport Explained series turns to Transfer Deadline Day. Have a look here.

12.12 My new friend Stewart Russell at Twitter.inc says: "There have already been more than half a million Tweets related to Falcao since #DeadlineDay began."
12.11 Well, they might be missing out on Falcao, but it's not all bad for Arsenal fans. Right? Right? Here's Matt Law.
Arsenal have been sounded out about the possibility of signing former Tottenham striker Jermain Defoe on loan until January.
Defoe is in England and ready to complete a move back to the Premier League from Major League Soccer club Toronto FC.
Queens Park Rangers remain favourites to sign 31-year-old Defoe, with Newcastle, Hull City and Leicester City all interested.
But Telegraph Sport understands Defoe has been offered to Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger to solve his striker crisis until Olivier Giroud returns from injury.
Giroud is out until the New Year and Defoe has been told by Toronto he can leave on loan until January and then try to arrange a permanent move.
Defoe would cost around £7million to sign permanently, which is unlikely to be of interest to Arsenal, but it remains to be seen whether or not Wenger could be tempted by a short-term deal.
Spurs could also look at a loan for Defoe if they cannot agree a deal to sign Danny Welbeck from Manchester United.
12.10 "Where will Falcao fit in at Man United?" wonders Mark Ogden.
12.05 Here is Jeremy Wilson with more on Arsene 'Fiddling In Rome' Wenger
Arsene Wenger's involvement today in the 'Match of Peace' charity event in Rome will not please many Arsenal fans, especially with the club unlikely to make major signings. Wenger, though, will still be in constant communication with club officials through the day. His priority is centre-back cover and, despite enquires for Loic Remy and Radamel Falcao, a new striker is now looking unlikely. If Arsenal do not make signings today, it will be as a result of Wenger's transfer policy and the club's spending limitations rather than travel plans. Wenger, after all, was in Rio de Janeiro when Arsenal completed the deals for both Alexis Sanchez and Mathieu Debuchy. He was also at a Uefa conference in Geneva on deadline day of 2011 when Arsenal signed five players.
12.00 Here's Javier Hernandez having a medical at Madrid. Hope they had a thorough look at his Little Pea.

"Javier Hernandez is close to completing his season-long loan move to Real Madrid and could be their player within the hour," says Mark Ogden.
11.55 And here is Luke Edwards with an update on the comings and goings at Newcastle.

11.53 More from Mr John Percy.
Paul Lambert has insisted Ron Vlaar will not be sold today, despite reports linking him with a surprise move to Arsenal.
Vlaar was one of the stars at the World Cup for the Netherlands and Arsenal are understood to have discussed the prospect of signing the defender.
But Lambert said: "He’s the captain of the club, we've not had a call, nothing at all - no one will be leaving anywhere."
Villa remain in the chase for Manchester United midfielder Tom Cleverley but the deal has been complicated by his wage demands and the threat of interest from Everton.
11.51 Aw, summer transfer season isn't the same without Luis.

11.48 Sensational. Really sensational work from Wenger.

11.45 I hadn't seen this before. This is the story of the day, for me. Arsene Wenger is in Italy refereeing a charity football match. Arsenal fans. How do you feel about that?
<noframe>Twitter: Daniel Storey - Arsene Wenger spending Deadline Day refereeing a charity match in Italy. That's almost a modern art performance in trolling of Arsenal fans.</noframe>
11.35 Shame, I rather like Lewis Holtby.

11.32 News from Burnley.
Burnley Football Club is delighted to confirm the signing of former Hull City midfielder George Boyd for an undisclosed fee.
The 28-year-old Scotland international, who has signed a three-year deal at Turf Moor, started his footballing education with Charlton Athletic in 2000 aged 15, before joining Stevenage Borough in 2001.
The Kent-born attacking midfielder featured 29 times in the Premier League for Steve Bruce’s side, scoring two goals in the 2013-14 campaign as well as coming off the bench in the 2014 FA Cup final against Arsenal.
Speaking of Boyd’s departure from the KC Stadium to Turf Moor, Hull boss Steve Bruce commented “I've been in the game a long time and if all professional footballers were like George Boyd my job would be easy.”
11.30 So yes, that would make an interesting feature I think. Is it easier to excel at sport if you're a lefty? And if so, why?
11.20 Good time to be a left-footed player at Old Trafford.
"Van Gaal has now signed five left-footed players this summer," points out Mark Ogden.
DE GEA
RAFAEL EVANS ROJO SHAW
HERRERA BLIND DI MARIA
ROONEY
VAN PERSIE FALCAO
Digital sport editor Mike Adamson notes: "Mata is also left-footed, but I think including him would be pushing it..."
Cricket has gone through a little period of having an excess of lefties recently. In the Sydney Ashes Test this year, England had eight guys who bat left-handed and the Aussies three..
11.17 An email from reader Baka Bright
What shocking news I am hearing of Falcao heading to Man United. What is he going to do there? oh Falcao has run away from Champions League football again to sit at home and watch, i just can't believe this news, Falcao I am really surprised this deadline day, this Man United team that has run out of ideas, we shall see.
11.15 John Percy returns to the fray.
Steve Bruce will complete a deal for West Ham midfielder Mohamed Diame today.
Bruce has agreed a fee of around £3million for the Senegal international and beaten competition from Queens Park Rangers.
Hull will also seal the £9.5million signing of Abel Hernandez from Porto and offload winger George Boyd to Burnley for £3million.
11.11 Sounds like Assaidi has a higher opinion of his weekly worth than Chris does...
<noframe>Twitter: Chris Bascombe - If only Stoke would stop being so reasonable and just meet Assaidi&rsquo;s &#163;50k a week wage demands he could get on with his post LFC career.</noframe>
11.08 Rumour: Spurs want to swap Andros Townsend for Jay Rodriguez. Should Southampton take the deal?
11.01 Reader David Prentice is IN THE KNOW
An impeccable source has just seen Kaka and his representatives dining at the Wok This Way outside St James' Park.
10.58 Here's more from Jeremy Wilson on the happenings, or lack of, at the Emirates.
Things can obviously change but sense from Arsenal is that it is likely to be a quiet day. Not expecting any big deals - maybe some cover at centre-back but the big striker signing that is wanted by so many fans is currently very unlikely. Arsenal did check on Radamel Falcao but wage demands were not considered affordable.
According to Mark Ogden in Manchester, United might be forking over twenty million English pounds for the pleasure of Falcao's company for ONE year, so you can kind of see Arsenal's point.
10.55 Aston Villa midfielder Karim El Ahmadi has left Aston Villa to rejoin former club Feyenoord for an undisclosed fee. Our resident Aston Villa fan Cameron Macphail shrugs and says "he was always a bit injured and he never really did much. He was one of the better players in a mediocre squad though. Good luck to him"
Farewell then, Karim El Ahmadi, we hardly knew ye
10.50 Here's a rundown of the action as it stands.
RADAMEL FALCAO Manchester United have won the race for the Monaco striker, securing a loan deal for the Colombian. Whether they actually need another massively expensive injury-plagueed striker is not for me to sat. He is flying to Manchester to have a medical and discuss personal terms. That means Real Madrid are likely to sign Javier Hernandez, while Danny Welbeck is wanted by Tottenham on loan.
MANCHESTER CITY With no move for Falcao, Alvaro Negredo's reported move to Valencia might be off. Micah Richards is off to Fiorentina, initially on loan. Interest from Arsenal, Spurs and West Ham in defender Matija Nastasic.
CRYSTAL PALACE Neil Warnock is a busy bee. Tottenham's Zeki Fryers is at the training ground and Palace have a club-record fee for Wigan's James McArthur. And there might well be more to come.
QPR The man who will forever be associated with TDD, Harry Redknapp, is once again in the mix. Jermain Defoe is just one of many former Harry Boys linked with Loftus Road, including Aaron Lennon, Sandro and Andros Townsend.
SOUTHAMPTON Atletico Madrid's Toby Alderweireld is in talks with the Saints, but boss Ronald Koeman - while interested in a winger - has cooled on Andros Townsend.
CHELSEA Marco van Ginkel is the second Blues player to head to Milan in this window, following Fernando Torres on a one-year loan deal.
10.45 News from Newcastle, thanks to Luke Edwards.
Everyone at Newcastle United has been praising themselves to the hilt because they have managed to sign nine players this summer, which given they didn't manage to bring anyone in on a permanent basis while Joe Kinnear was Director of Football isn't surprising.
However, I'd like to deflate their balloon a little following the news Micah Richards is heading to Fiorentina on loan for the season. (NB Our man in Manchester, Mark Ogden, also says that Micah is going to Fiorentina - AT)
Manager Alan Pardew has consistently said he needs more British players in the squad to balance the number of French imports, yet Newcastle have allowed a former England international with a point to prove to head elsewhere, despite tracking him for months.
I'd also suggest that, if Newcastle had anything about them in terms of trying to break back into the top six this season, they would be pushing hard to sign Danny Welbeck today. Their interest, though, has only been tentative and that's not likely to be productive on a day like today.
Welbeck fits their age profile for signings, has plenty of Premier League experience and is an England international. Newcastle have enough money in the coffers to pay Manchester United the £12m they are looking for, but I just can't see it happening.
Newcastle would, as they have shown in the pass, go into a season without an out and out striker than pay a little bit more money than they would ideally like to fill a gaping whole in their squad.
Newcastle have not spent any money on a deadline day signing since 2008, the summer Kevin Keegan walked out in disgust at the way the club had ignored his transfer target requests.
Newcastle should be trying to sign Welbeck, but if they are, they are not likely to try hard enough.
10.40 It tells you something about the nutso money in football that I had to double check the figure here.
<noframe>Twitter: Sky Sports News HQ - Sky Sources: Two bits of Leeds breaking news: The club agree &#163;10,000 compensation deal with former head coach Dave Hockaday <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23SkyDeadlineDay" target="_blank">#SkyDeadlineDay</a></noframe>
Ten grand! In football! That's got to hurt. Don't they normally have to give the managers about a million quid to bog off?
10.35 Javier Hernandez is set to end his Man United sub bench hell by, erm, going to sit on the bench at Real Madrid. Loan move.

10.30 Here's the Falcao to Man United loan story
<noframe>Twitter: Mark Chapman - Am following all the clubs for important deadlineday news. &ldquo;<a href="http://www.twitter.com/BurnleyOfficial" target="_blank">@BurnleyOfficial</a>: Main Reception Closed For Three Weeks <a href="http://t.co/a36muRfYFf&rdquo;" target="_blank">http://t.co/a36muRfYFf&rdquo;</a></noframe>
10.25 To the East End, where Matt Law has glad tidings of great joy for West Ham fans. Or, at least, West Ham fans who like Nastasic.
WEST HAM have turned their attention to Matija Nastasic after withdrawing their interest in his Manchester City team-mate Micah Richards.
The Hammers are still in the market for a defender during today's final day of the transfer window, but were put off Richards by his £80,000-a-week wage demands.
Central defender Nastasic is already interesting Arsenal, but City may not want to let him join a rival.
West Ham still have one domestic loan to use and could try to tempt Nastasic with the promise of first-team football until the end of the season.
10.20 Here is our Manchester expert Mark Ogden with more on Falcao. Not a transfer but a loan, it would seem.
Manchester United have emerged as front-runners to complete an audacious deadline day move for Monaco forward Radamel Falcao after agreeing a loan deal for the former Atletico Madrid striker.
The Colombian forward, who missed the World Cup due to a cruciate ligament injury sustained in January, has been made available for a loan or permanent transfer by his French club.
Manchester City had appeared to be favourites to sign the 28-year-old with efforts accelerated at the Etihad Stadium to offload injured forward Alvaro Negredo.
But United have decided to accept the invitation to bid for the striker with manager Louis van Gaal requiring attacking reinforcements due to plans to offload Danny Welbeck and Javier Hernandez.
A deal with Monaco over a loan deal, which could cost United as much as £20m for a season, has been agreed this morning.
And Falcao is expected to fly into Manchester later today to undergo a medical ahead of the move.
10.18 Reader Justin Yeoh has made an IN THE KNOW SIGHTING
I just saw Emile Heskey getting out of a taxi at Villa Park. A temporary replacement solution for the injured Benteke/possible player coach role?
10.16 A bit down the glamour scale from Monaco, but here's a story about Everton's bid for Ryan Shawcross.
10.14 If Monaco do shift Falcao, they might take Soldado from Spurs as a (somewhat inferior) replacement.
10.12 The Falcao-to-Man United story in a little more depth
10.10 I mentioned Harry Redknapp may be bringing Jermain Defoe back to QPR earlier. That would be the most Transfer Deadline Day thing ever. More on that here.
10.07 Stewart Russell, who works in the Communications Department at Twitter, writes:
Since July 1st, the ongoing rumours that have been most discussed by fans on Twitter are:
1) Arturo Vidal 2) Sami Khedira 3) Marco Reus 4) Radamel Falcao 5) Mats Hummels 6) Edison Cavani 7) Daley Blind
Of the deals that have already gone through involving London clubs, Arsenal and Chelsea fans seem to be dominating Twitter conversation. The most-discussed London deals are:
1) Alexis Sanchez 2) Diego Costa 3) Didier Drogba 4) Thomas Vermaelen 5) Cesc Fabregas
The most-discussed major deals across Europe this summer that have gone through are:
1) Angel Di Maria 2) Luis Suarez 3) James Rodriguez 4) Alexis Sanchez 5) Toni Kroos
10.05 Here is the latest from John Percy with all your Crystal Palace news.
Wigan have confirmed midfielder James McArthur is poised to join Crystal Palace for a deal that could reach £6.5million. McArthur, the Scotland international, almost joined Leicester last week but is now heading down to London for a medical. Neil Warnock also wants Norwich's Gary Hooper and Tottenham defender Zeki Fryers.
10.00 Big Niall Quinn is not on Team Yellow Tie.

09.57 I present to you 'Poker Face - Arsenal Transfer Deadline Day Remix' - Arsene Wenger ft. Ivan Gazidis' from Gunnerblog.

09.52 Jeremy Wilson has popped up with a double. North London, South Coast, it's all grist to the mill of this transfer deadline day machine.
Southampton have made bids for Atletico Madrid defender Toby Alderweireld and Salzburg midfielder Sadio Mane as they aim to make two deadline day signings.
Mane, a Senegal international, would cost around £12 million while Alderweireld, who plays for Belgium but has been struggling for regular first-team football at Atletico, is most likely to come on loan.
Alderweireld would be seen as a replacement for Dejan Lovren, who was sold to Liverpool, but he can also provide cover at right-back following the sale to Arsenal of Calum Chambers.
Celtic's Virgil Van Dijk, a Dutch defender who plays for Celtic, is also of interest to Southampton, as is Norwich City's Nathan Redmond but Alderweireld and Mane are currently the most likely deals.
Southampton are also confident of resisting Tottenham's interest in Jay Rodriguez and Morgan Schneiderlin. After having a bid rejected themselves for Andros Townsend, Southampton have moved onto other targets.
<noframe>Twitter: Nick Miller - If United sign Falcao, I reckon they'd have the most lopsided side in history in terms of forwards/defence relative quality,</noframe>
09.49 Serious money being spent on a serious player, according to this....
<noframe>Twitter: Guillem Balague - My colleague <a href="http://www.twitter.com/matallanas" target="_blank">@matallanas</a> says that Falcao has signed for Manchester United for &#8364;65m. Four seasons, &#8364;9 net a year. Via <a href="http://www.twitter.com/diarioas" target="_blank">@diarioas</a></noframe>
09.45 Truly, these are the good times for Championship level strikers. It is being reported that Leicester have put in a five million pound bid for Ipswich striker David McGoldrick, but the Tractor Boys are holding out for seven!
09.43 An email from reader Mark Haynes
The news that Tom Cleverley's move to Villa could be scuppered by his wage demands is a welcome one i think, as it echoes the time they signed Djemba-Djemba, just because he's from Man Utd so "must be quite good". Although at least they haven't spent £10m on a striker on the back of Youtube clips, unlike West Brom...(we remember Savo Milosevic)
09.42 Looks like Southampton might have nodded off! Come on Southampton! Everyone else is paying attention.

09.40 Word arrives from our man in North London. It's Jeremy Wilson.
Arsenal priority today is centre-back but would also like to add a striker. Have made inquiries for Matija Nastasic at Manchester City and Ron Vlaar at Aston Villa. There also is interest in Radamel Falcao, although a near £20 million cost for one year loan or a £55 million permanent transfer would be at odds with usual transfer approach. Wenger will be conscious of Falcao's age - he's 28 - for a long-term contract at record wages and transfer fee so loan deal would be most appealing.
<noframe>Twitter: Daniel Storey - Falcao recently started following Ander Herrera, David Silva, Andres Iniesta and Joel Campbell on Twitter. Top marks for trolling.</noframe>
09.35 This seems like a lot of money. It is being reported that Crystal Palace and Wigan have agreed a seven million pound fee for Scotland midfielder James McArthur.
09.32 Word is that Michah Richards is going to Fiorentina! That would be excellent. Big fan of Micah. Big fan of any England player who tries his luck abroad.
09.30 IN THE KNOW UPDATE from reader Joseph Cass:
Celeb chef and massive Gooner Ainsley Harriott spotted at north London wine bar with Miroslav Klose. Was he brokering a deal or simply enjoying some quality Chablis with the German? Only time will tell…
<noframe>Twitter: Wenger Knows Best - Have I had breakfast yet? Look, every time you are hungry, the solution is not always to eat something.</noframe>
09.20 Sporting Gijon striker Stefan Scepovic had agreed a four-year deal with Celtic but has now changed his mind. Oh dear.
09.15 Seems fairly clear that Lassana Diarra will be joining up with his former Pompey boss Harry Redknapp at QPR.
09.10 Having watched the Arsenal play yesterday, I would say that of thebig teams they are by far and away the one who most need a player. Well, two players. They need a defensive midfielder and they simply have to get somebody better up front than poor old Sanogo, who looks considerably short of the standard required. They are among the pack of clubs chasing Radamel Falcao, but bookies rate them at 8/1 to land the player, with Man United at 4/6 and Man City at 5/4.
<noframe>Twitter: Nick Miller - The purest form of rebellion would be for a Sky Sports News reporter to wear a powder blue tie. Or red. Or green. Anything but yellow.</noframe>
09.01 Sky Sports News seem to be focusing - I would go as far as to say fixating - on Tottenham defender Zeki Fryers, who is set to join Crystal Palace by all accounts. He's having a medical. He's also wearing an identical charcoal hoody (American Apparel?) to the one that is draped over the back of my chair. Perhaps this means I am also set for a move to join Neil Warnock's merry men.
08.58 Chris Bascombe, meanwhile, is up in Liverpool. Here's his State of the Red Nation.
Not expecting a night shift at Anfield – certainly not in terms of incomings. Liverpool need another goalkeeper and made a move for Reading’s Alex McCarthy last week, but QPR were well advanced in negotiations. At this stage, it seems Victor Valdes a more likely keeper recruit but there is no need to complete that until he is fit in the autumn. Valdes is a free agent so there is no indication he'll be on a helicopter to Melwood soon.
All the activity will be outgoing. Sebastian Coates is in Sunderland at the moment to complete a loan deal. Lucas is so desperate to leave he has a taxi on speed dial but so far the only bids are loans. Galatasaray have made an approach. If Liverpool do let the Brazilian leave on loan it will be with reluctance. They want cash but they will probably take the ‘anywhere but Napoli’ loan option since the Italians have been playing games on Lucas’ future to try and get him on the cheap all summer.
08.56 And now we're off to the North East, where Luke Edwards has only been and made a video about Sunderland. It's nothing to do with male strippers, is it? Oh no wait, that was Sheffield. Anyhow.

08.53 To Stoke, and do not spare the violent defenders horses. It is Mr John Percy
Everton have registered a late interest in Stoke defender Ryan Shawcross, but understand a deal is highly unlikely. Stoke would demand at least £15million for the England international, who was excellent in the win against Manchester City, and have no intention of selling a key player so late in the window. There could be a surprise deal, however, with Stoke reviving their bid to sign Liverpool's Oussama Assaidi. Peter Odemwingie damaged his knee in the win at the Etihad and initial fears are he could miss the rest of the year at least. Assaidi's move collapsed over personal terms earlier this summer but he could join on loan.
08.50 Roger Clarke is the SSN reporter at Southampton. He's got a yellow tie. So is the bloke at Leicester City. Jim White has taken over their minds!
08.45 Disgruntled Arsenal fan ahoy.
<noframe>Twitter: Daniel Coffer - Tomorrow's running order 9am - 12pm Falcoa 12pm - 3pm Higuain 3pm - 7pm Bony 7pm - 11.59pm kalou 12am Landon Donavan on loan <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23arsenal" target="_blank">#arsenal</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23afc" target="_blank">#afc</a></noframe>
08.40 Other rumours we will keep our eyes on...
QPR want Sandro and Lennon on loan but PL rules will allow them to take only one player from a club. Seemed last night that Lennon was the most likely to leave Spurs, but you'd be a brave man to bet on this one.
Sunderland will confirm Alvarez this morning and that Liverpool should agree to allow Coates to join the Mackems.
08.35 Arsenal favourite Robert Shawcross might be moving from Stoke City to Everton, according to, erm, everyone on the internet. Keeping tabs on that...
08.30 It is my sad duty to bring you news of Loic Remy LYING TO CHILDREN.
08.25 Matt Law is the first of our correspondents to mark your card today on the live blog, winning himself a case of champagne* for reporting some exciting news for Spurs fans that fits in with the Falcao business. It's all wheels within wheels, isn't it? Have at it, Matt.
MONACO have lined up Tottenham flop Roberto Soldado as a potential replacement for Radamel Falcao.
Striker Falcao is a target for Manchester City and Juventus on transfer deadline day and his departure would leave Monaco needing a new man.
Spurs are open to offers for Soldado, who has attracted the interest of AC Milan, Juventus and Roma this summer.
Monaco are now the latest club to look seriously at Soldado, but may favour a loan move over paying Tottenham's £13million asking price.
Spurs will only let Soldado go if they are sure of signing a replacement, with Manchester United's Danny Welbeck and Swansea's Wilfried Bony among their targets.
* may not contain champagne
08.15 Good morning all. Happy transfer deadline day. There's plenty to get through. Here are just some of the rumours bubbling under today.
Falcao to United. The rumours on social media Sunday night were that United are eyeing the hot striker. Our man on the inside disguised as a pot plant at Manchester Airport says that City are also keen, but that depends partly on Negredo moving. Arsenal are also sniffing around.
Danny Welbeck to leave Man U? Sounds like Louis van Gaal is not on Team Danny, and United are looking to get rid of the player. Problem is finding someone who will pay the asking price.
For his next number, QPR boss Harry Redknapp will return to the classics: he is apparently keen to sign Jermain Defoe! Again! Why will this happen? Because Toronto sacked manager Ryan Nelson and his staff yesterday, triggering rumours that Defoe was about to sign for a Premiership club. And where else?
