Australian Grand Prix 2015: as it happened
By Alan Tyers
6:49AM GMT 15 Mar 2015
• Five Things That Daniel Johnson Learned • Report: Hamilton cruises to victory in Australian Grand Prix • Jackie Stewart interview: 'F1 good old days were the bad days' • The prize for Lewis Hamilton this season - legendary status • In pictures - 2015 F1 teams ranked and rated • Video - Hamilton's Formula One career by numbers

07.00 And so will we. Thanks for reading. Here are the Five Things That Daniel Johnson Learned
And here is his race report as Hamilton cruises to victory in the Australian Grand Prix.
06.52 He talks to all three of the drivers on the podium. "I know what you're going to say at the end of the intervew," he says to Lewis. "So let's say it together."
Lewis and Arnie: "I'll be back!"
06.49 Woah! They've got Arnie to do the interviews.

FINAL: LEWIS HAMILTON WINS THE AUSTRALIAN GRAND PRIX
Mercedes driver Lewis Hamilton won the season-opening Australian Grand Prix on Sunday in a perfect start for his Formula One world championship defence.
Starting from pole position at Albert Park, the Briton led a Mercedes one-two for the top two podium spots and crossed the line at Albert Park 1.3 seconds ahead of German team mate Nico Rosberg.
Sebastian Vettel was third on his Ferrari debut.
Jenson Button made it to the chequered flag, but finished in 11th

<noframe>Twitter: Daniel Johnson - Bravo Lewis, bravo Seb. Other than that, not the most eventful race. <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23AusGP" target="_blank">#AusGP</a></noframe>
Lap 50: Massa has started to catch Vettel a little bit, he's got 2.5 seconds to make up. In lieu of actual drama, that's about the best I can do for you. Karen Webb writes:
Nobody will be able to beat Lewis if his car has no issues as he takes chances that no one else does. The only person who will match him, but not for a year or two, is Daniel Ricardo and that is only if he was in the same car as Lewis!
Lap 49: Raikkonen has a face like thunder, to go along with an investigation into his leaving the pit lane.
Lap 47: Lewis and Nico pootling around happily. It has not been a season opener to quicken the pulse, as of yet...
Lap 46: Old Jenson just one place from a champ point. In fact, he's briefly in tenth, but after a pit, Perez is back in front of him.
Lap 44: Ericsson pits, soft tires.
Lap 42: Raikkonen makes a pit stop but he's hardly out of there before his car grinds to a halt, that left rear tire again, and he makes it just a few hundred yards before he stops and Raikkonen retires. He might even get a stop-go penalty for that. That means just 12 cars remain.
Lap 40: Another iffy pit stop, this time from Perez. Rusty mechanics?
Lap 39: And Lewis bangs home that advantage with the fastest lap of the race.
Lap 38: Rosberg made a charge over the last few laps but has used a lot of fuel doing so, he's been told by the radio that he needs to cool his jets a bit and now Lewis has started to re-open the lead.
Lap 34: Vettel solid in third spot. But no sooner is Verstappen out than he radios "Smoke in the car!!" Oh no, he is out of the race. Power unit problem. "Tricky weekend," says Christian Horner.

Lap 33: Lewis lead is down from four seconds to about two. And here's the rookie Verstappen making his first pit stop in Formula 1. He's got soft tires on now.
Lap 32: Not certain why (and boy is that an understatement) but Rosberg is taking bites out of the Hamilton lead. They're saying on the telly it was just traffic, no big issue on the radio.
Lap 30: So just after halfway, it's all looking good for Lewis. Jenson still taking his chances of a top ten finish - but we are just hearing that he has a problem with his tires.
Lap 28: Raikkonen making moves again, the new fastest lap of the race. They've hardly mentioned Lewis on the TV commentary other than that pit stop. His lead over Rosberg is now 3.6 seconds.
<noframe>Twitter: Kate Taylor - Just commenting on how quickly they remove the car tyres and friend said "you obviously haven't spent a night in my street". <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23AUSGP" target="_blank">#AUSGP</a></noframe>
Lap 27: Solid pit stop from Rosberg as well.
Lap 26: Sainz is having a mare in the pit, something wrong with the wheel gun, they cannot get the left rear wheel off. He has to wait an age. Lewis into the pits, a 3.3 second stop. All good.
<noframe>Twitter: Daniel Johnson - Lewis leads Nico after the stops. Unless the car fails, race over. <a href="http://t.co/OAqcnaRfkU" target="_blank">http://t.co/OAqcnaRfkU</a></noframe>
Lap 25: Massa is at turn 13 and Vettel is in the pits. Vettel has jumped ahead of him in the pit.
Lap 23: An update from Daniel Johnson at the track.
As often happens in Melbourne when it doesn't rain, this race has become a bit of a snoozefest. What we can glean so far is that Mercedes are miles ahead, followed by Williams and Ferrari. Surprisingly, Red Bull seem to be nowhere. No wonder Adrian Newey sees "no light at the end of the tunnel". Also, awful stop for Kimi. 8.7s. Lewis maintaining the gap at the front. What does Nico have to respond?
Lap 22: Massa the only one of the top six who has made a stop so far.
Lap 20: With 38 laps to go, the one-two of Hamilton and Rosberg are driving a different race to everyone else but Ferrari still fancy their chances for third. The Williams of Felipe Massa currently holding that spot.
Lap 19: Raikkonen fastest lap of race.
Lap 18: Lewis with the fastest lap of the race. Ferrari not too happy about that pit stop for Kimi - along with the fact that the minor damage to his car was caused by colleague Vettel, there will be some tempers fraying there.
Lap 17: Kimi R into the pit, he's got some damage to one of his wings... he's ready to re-start... but there's a delay. Oh dear oh dear. The best-laid plans and all that...
Lap 16: The Hamilton leads is back over two seconds.
Lap 14: Perez has spun around on turn three. There's some debris on the track - I think that's from the Perez car. Jenson probably at fault there, didn't seem to see his former teammate coming and shut the door a bit too late. A marshall comes onto the track to clear that debris.

Lap 13: Kimi R cannot get past Ricciardo despite his best efforts.
Lap 12: Button and Perez involved in a battle royal to stay ahead of Perez in last place. Some great defensive driving from the experienced Brit. "Lovely job Jenson, keep making life difficult for him," says his team on the radio. Something rather inspriational about a sportsman using every ounce of his skill and nous to... avoid finishing flat last.
Lap 11: Standings: Hamilton, Rosberg, Massa, Vettel, Nasr, Ricciardo, Raikkonen, Sainz, Verstappen, Hulkenberg, Ericsson, Button, Perez.
Lap 10: And this is another quick lap from Rosberg, Hamilton's lead is under a second now.
Lap 9: Rosberg has just lapped .6 seconds faster than Lewis and he has cut the lead to 1.6 seconds.
Lap 8: Kimi Raikkonen is on the charge, he's gone past Carlos Sainz.
Lap 7: Nico Rosbeg has produced the fastest lap of the race and has shaved a little off Hamilton's lead.

Lap 5: Anyway, despite all this, Lewis Hamilton is sitting pretty. He's a couple of seconds clear of Rosberg.
Lap 4: Nasr overtakes, but while we are under the safety car and is told he'll have to give back the place. We're down to 13 runners
Lap 3: They're still behind the safety car. On the upside of all this, Jenson Button might get a drivers' championship point at this rate.
Lap 2: They're following the safety car round. Grosjean had a loss of power, the Lotus people told him just to trundle round and call it a day.
Lap 1: Lights out! We're OFF! Hamilton around the first corner safely. But Kimi R has been tapped from behind. By Massa, maybe? By Vettel? That started a mini chain reaction and Maldonado is out of the race. Grosjean also seesms to be retiring.

Absolutely bonkers start to the season. I'll bring you more as we try to figure out that mess.
04.58 Here we are then. Just a couple of minutes to go. All of the top ten drivers are on soft tires.
04.55 Here's Daniel Johnson:
What's going on? Last year was supposed to be when everyone broke down, not this year. Standing on the baking grid, it was almost laughable looking up at the TV screens seeing both Kevin Magnussen and Daniil Kvyat parked up. It gives us a 15-car race. Plenty for Bernie Ecclestone - who I'm told is not here - to chew over.
04.50 Sensationally cringey grid walk with Martin Brundle. Drivers and team principals ignoring him or giving him one-word answers. Finally Sergio Perez takes pity on him and Brundle tried to tie him up in some leading question about the performance of the national anthem "isn't it a bit annoying you all have to stand up the front for the national anthem rather than stay by the car?" or some such. Perez to his credit just said that they're happy to do it because fans like it.
<noframe>Twitter: Louis Suddaby - Arrivabene's face when Brundle approached was priceless! "Uh oh, I've heard about you..." <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23SkyF1" target="_blank">#SkyF1</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23AusGP" target="_blank">#AusGP</a></noframe>
04.46 Christian Horner: "It's been one of those weekends so far, it has to get better because it can't get any worse. It's a gearbox issue with Danni Kvyat."
04.45 Top stat from the TV boys. We haven't had this few cars starting a race since San Marino 1982.
04.44 The delightful confusion of the grid walk now on Sky. Oh look, there is An-nuld.

04.40 More from Daniel Johnson: "As far as celeb watch goes - I've seen Leyton Hewitt, and Arnie Schwarzenegger is going to be here too. The opportunistic Mercedes PR machine are trying their best to get a photo of the Terminator with the Totonator (team boss Toto Wolff) on the grid."
04.35 Another driver with major problems! The Red Bull of Daniil Kvyat is also jiggered - he has not made it around the formation lap.
04.32 Kevin Magnussen has climbed out of his car, which is belching out smoke. Oh dear. McLaren not enjoying much of a start to the season.
04.31 Gorgeous weather there, and the cars are in the pit lane. 29 minutes until Lights Out.
04.30 Here's the Telegraph's Daniel Johnson coming atcha live from Down Under:
Big news before the start is Valtteri Bottas is out with a back injury. That means, with Manor having not run all weekend, we will have a 17-car race. Less than ideal for F1's big opener.

04.25 There's an interview with Lewis Hamilton on why he won't have race number one. "She's been around a bit," he jokes. "But number 44, she's always been with me, only me."
04.15 Valtteri Bottas has hurt a disc in his back during qualifying in Australia and will not race.
04.00 Good morning spors fans and/or people with insomnia! The Australian Grand Prix is getting underway at 5am and we will bring you all the thrills and spills.
Lewis Hamilton is in high spirits after producing a blistering start to the defence of his Formula One title.
Hamilton will start from pole position for today's Australian Grand Prix, the 39th of his career, his fourth at Melbourne's Albert Park, and third in the last four years.
Hamilton was so dominant not even Mercedes team-mate Nico Rosberg could touch the 30-year-old whose lap of one minute 26.327secs was 0.6secs clear of the German.
As for the rest, they were cast adrift, with Williams' Felipe Massa lining up third on the grid, but almost 1.4secs off the pace.
Even at this early stage the season threatens to again be a two-horse affair between Hamilton and Rosberg as Mercedes have moved on apace from last year.
Assessing his sensational display, Hamilton said: "I'm really happy with what I did, particularly coming off a season like last year with the performance we had.
"Then there was the expectation coming into this season we should again have a car to compete, with the pressure upped again, and also with me being a champion you become a target,
"I'm going to try and see if I can hit those heights every weekend from now on, if that's possible."
As to the considerable gap, with Rosberg showing the strain of trying to match Hamilton as he made a mistake in the final session, Hamilton added: "It's hard to believe.
"Last year it was the best car I'd ever driven, and I commented on that many times.
"It's easy to then get it wrong by making drastic changes and getting too far ahead of ourselves, but we didn't.
"To make the steps forward we have, the team have done an amazing job and it now is the best car I've driven."
As to whether anyone can hold a candle to Mercedes, he replied: "We definitely didn't expect the gap to be as big as it was - at least I didn't.
"Ultimately tomorrow it's going to be a battle between me and Nico."
Join Alan Tyers from 4am (GMT) for all the latest build-up followed by race action...

