Last picture emerges of British yachtsmen as family say 'hope is all we have'
By Edward Malnick
12:40PM BST 23 May 2014
The sister of one of the four sailors missing in the Atlantic has said that “hope is all we have”, as the last picture of the group emerged showing them just hours before they set off for home.
Kay Coombes, whose brother Steve Warren is one of British crew of the Cheeki Rafiki yacht, said the family was hoping rescuers would find the men on Friday.
Her remarks came as a photograph emerged of the sailors leaving an awards ceremony at Antigua Sailing Week, shortly before they went missing.
Mis Coombes’ comments followed the US Coastguard’s announcement that its search will be suspended if nothing is found by Friday night.
The Foreign Office said on Friday afternoon that the families of the men were "saddened" by the news, although they understood that "this would have to happen".
Mother died trapped in quicksand in Antigua
Servicemen defy disability to row across the Atlantic
Father: 'resume search for British yachtsmen'
Families of missing British yachtsmen plead for US to resume search
Sir Robin Knox-Johnston: still hope for missing British yachtsmen
Missing British yachtsmen could survive for months, says Tony Bullimore
Captain Anthony Popiel, chief of response at the 1st Coast Guard District, said on Thursday night that he informed the families that the operation would be suspended at midnight (5am Saturday UK time) if there were “no further developments to indicate search efforts would locate the crew alive”.
He said: “It is only after deepest consideration that we suspend active search efforts.”
He added: “With sincere compassion for the families of these four men, our thoughts and prayers are with them all during this difficult time.”
Ms Coombes said: “I am a bit disappointed to be honest with you, hopefully they will find something today. Hope is all that we have got now.”
She added that she understood that the RAF Hercules aircraft involved in the operation would continue its search on Saturday.
Clockwise from top left: Andrew Bridge, Paul Goslin, the missing yacht Cheeki Rafiki, James Male and Steve Warren
The family of Mr Bridge told the BBC that they remained “hopeful” and “appreciate everything that is being done”.
Nicola Evans, Mr Bridge’s friend who started a successful petition calling on the coastguard to resume their search when it was previously called off on Sunday, said she hoped the rescuers would give “everything they have” to the “final push”.
Coastguard officials have informed the British Consulate of their plans to suspend the search for the men.
The missing crew members are Andrew Bridge, 22, the crew’s experienced captain from Farnham in Surrey, and James Male, 23, from Southampton, Mr Warren, 52, from Bridgwater, Somerset, and Paul Goslin, 56, from West Camel, Somerset.
They activated distress beacons on 39ft yacht last Friday morning.
Searchers from the US Coastguard, the US Air Force, the Canadian military and the RAF, as well as a number of commercial vessels and volunteers, have combed more than 17,000 miles of ocean in the hunt for the Cheeki Rafiki’s crew.
The yacht is thought to have sunk around 620 miles east of Cape Cod last Thursday. The US coast guard estimates that the crew could only have survived for around 20 hours after they sent out distress signal on Friday.
The capsized hull of what is believed to be the 39-foot sailing vessel Cheeki Rafiki seen by crew onboard the Maersk Kure container ship (EPA)
Debris found in the area of the Atlantic Ocean where the yacht disappeared did not belong to the stricken vessel, coastguard officials said on Thursday.
Capt Popiel said: “Unfortunately we have had no sightings thus far and have concluded that none of the debris or objects located during the search have correlated to the Cheeki Rafiki.”
More rescue vessels, including the coastguard cutter Vigorous, were due to arrive in the area on Friday. A US navy warship is already in place, using its helicopter to carry out searches.
Search conditions on Thursday were described as “favourable”, with winds around 20 knots and seas of roughly 6ft to 8ft.
Hugh Robertson, the foreign office minister, also spoke to the families of the missing sailors on Thursday night to inform them of the US Coast Guard’s decision to suspend the search, saying it had gone “above and beyond” in its efforts to find them.
Mr Robertson said: “I know that, despite there being no further sightings of the Cheeki Rafiki or its crew, any decision to suspend the search will be incredibly difficult and will only be taken after the most serious deliberation.”
A statement from the Foreign Office on Friday afternoon said the families "still hold out much hope that their loved ones will be found soon".
It said: "They were obviously saddened to hear that the US Coast Guard will be suspending the search. But they were prepared for the fact that this would have to happen.
"They are meeting with the Foreign Office later on today, to talk about UK involvement and any other avenues that can be explored.
"Having spent the week getting to know each other better, along with hearing the endless accounts of survivors, the families are reassured that their men would work as an efficient and cohesive team.
"This gives them additional hope that they will still be found, as the US Coast Guard have found no evidence to the contrary."

