Clipper Race 2013 -14: Sir Keith Mills' journey from crew member to owner of Team Origin in America’s Cup bid
By Kate Laven
7:29PM GMT 05 Feb 2014
Comments
Sir Keith Mills, the prominent businessman and one of the Clipper Race’s most prominent crew members, forked out just £6000 to compete in two Atlantic legs in 1998 but that brief foray into offshore racing across the world's oceans has since cost him millions and millions of pounds.
Mills had already made a fortune from his Air Miles loyalty scheme brainwave so a modest investment in his quest to achieve a better work-life balance, or get him out of his wife’s hair as he says, was a drop in the ocean.
He had no idea at that stage that a friendship with his skipper Alex Thomson, who remains the youngest skipper ever to win the Clipper Race would form the foundation of a new sailing project followed by another, then another which would ultimately lead to sailing’s biggest project – the America’s Cup.
“I had been focusing on making money and had become a boring old fart so needed to broaden my horizons.
“I was despatched to do my Clipper training and off I went. It took me completely out of my comfort zone because suddenly I was no longer in charge, I was broaching in 40 knots of wind and unbelievably tired.
Son of Singapore dreaming of homecoming
Making seadogs from novices
Crewmember breaks leg in violent storm
Ainslie to take part in Extreme Sailing Series
'We've had deep house and Hungarian love ballads'
Hostage Brennan reveals Mandela inspiration
"It gave me a different perspective on life and made me understand myself quite a lot better. It made me change my lifestyle and some of the things I do.
“I ceased spending all my waking hours making money and spent more time doing more interesting things,” he said.
He set up a yacht racing company Formula 1 sailing with Alex then in 2004 set up a company to run Alex’s Open 60 sponsorship business with Hugo Boss.
That led in 2007 to the setting up of Team Origin – a £3 million campaign that was meant to be a British bid for the America’s Cup until the Cup’s surprise switch to multihulls among other major changes, put any chance of winning beyond his reach.
“So the Clipper Race ended up costing me an awful lot of money,” he said. Mills raced for four weeks across the South Atlantic, mainly beating from Cape Town to San Salvador in Brazil then the North Atlantic from Brazil to Plymouth. In all he completed around 9,000nms and covered a third of the planet.
They were happy times, he says, apart from his stints in the galley when he was on mother watch.
“My worst nightmare was being on mother watch and having to cook because I can’t cook. But I learned how to make bread and how to cook barracuda that we caught off the back of the boat so it wasn’t all bad.
“I can remember it all vividly, sitting up all night mending sails, watching one of our crew Richard who was partially sighted helm using the wind on his face because that was all he had. There were ten of us on board and we all worked hard because we all wanted to win. Lovely, lovely memories.“
There were tensions on board. Alex was a chain smoker and he announced a few hours out of Cape Town that he had given up and thrown all his cigarettes away.
“There were five other members of the crew who smoked and they said he wouldn’t be having any of theirs. You’re right, he said, because I’ve thrown all yours away too. I think he did it for a laugh but there was quite a lot of tension after that.
“The boats were all the same so success came down to seamanship and a desire to win and despite that risky little episode, we were all inspired by Alex to push the boat pretty hard. It was a good happy boat which is probably why we won.”Since then, Mills has been busy on and off the water.
In 2002, he set up another bank busting loyalty programme called Nectar Card then a year later was asked to head up the London bid for the Olympics which was a successful two year project at the end of which, he was charged with appointing a team to run them.
His enthusiasm for a British bid to win the America’s Cup remains undimmed which is likely to see him lend his support to Sir Ben Ainslie over the next few months and according to the crew of his TP52 '5 ° West' at Aberdeen Asset Management Cowes Week last summer, his helming has come on leaps and bounds. He is also a non-executive director at Tottenham Hotspur FC though that can hardly be classed as recreational.
Despite that, the work-life balance has improved considerably since he headed off into the Clipper sunset 15 years ago.
He was 48 then and heading for a midlife crisis but the Clipper Race calibrated his values and aims which has been good for business and very good for British sailing.

