http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/571234/s/40b514bb/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cchelsea0C112457740CDiego0ECostas0Einjury0Eproblems0Eare0Ein0Ethe0Epast0Esays0EChelsea0Emanager0EJose0EMourinho0Bhtml/story01.htm
Diego Costa's injury problems are in the past, says Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho
By Ben Rumsby
1:36PM GMT 21 Nov 2014
Comments
Jose Mourinho has declared Diego Costa finally free of the hamstring injury that has dogged his Chelsea career but admitted to concerns about how he would cope with their “incredible marathon” of games for the rest of 2014.
Costa is expected to start Saturday’s game with West Bromwich Albion after being excused Spain duty during the international break in order to fully address a problem that has blighted his otherwise explosive start to life in English football.
But his manager admitted a run of 12 matches in less than six weeks would be a culture shock for his star striker, who is used to having Christmas off.
“Now we are going to have a period that is new for him,” he said. “I believe the Christmas period for players doing it for the first time in their careers is more difficult.
“The English players, or those who have been here for many years, are more physically and mentally adapted and prepared to cope with the special incredible marathon of football we face.
Chelsea v West Brom: as it happened
Premier League team news and match previews
Will English football clubs ever make money?
Chelsea v West Brom: match preview
“He had a little holiday, with a Chelsea physio, for two weeks so even then he was working many hours per day with our physio.
“After that, he came back, he keeps going in the right direction. We feel he’s free of his old injury.”
Mourinho revealed he had already warned Costa, who has scored 10 goals in nine Premier League games, of the unique demands of the festive period.
“We spoke yesterday about it,” he said, before pointing out that the 26-year-old was one yellow card away from a suspension.
“Am I going to protect him? No way. He plays. When he’s fit, he plays. When he gets the fifth yellow card ... I am not thinking about Sunderland, Newcastle or Stoke. I am thinking just about the next match. We go match by match, but the way he trains and expresses himself in training, he has a free mind.
“He’s free of fears at this moment. He’s good at this moment.”
The same may not be true of his team-mate for club and country, Cesc Fabregas, who trained on Friday following a thigh injury that also saw him sit out Spain duty.
“Hopefully, he can play because it’s a very important game for us,” Mourinho said.
The Portuguese also claimed to have received no bids for goalkeeper Petr Cech, despite interest from Arsenal, Real Madrid, AC Milan and Paris St Germain.
“I have zero, zero proposals,” he said.
And he refused to be drawn on the likely atmosphere at Saturday’s game, Chelsea’s first at home since Mourinho criticised the lack of noise at Stamford Bridge.
He added: “My job is not to criticise the stadium, which I did. That is not my job, and I don’t want to make any more comments about that.”
