Spain 0 Germany 1: Toni Kroos strikes late to secure victory for the world champions
By Telegraph Sport, and agencies
10:38PM GMT 18 Nov 2014
Comments
A late goal by Toni Kroos gave Germany a 1-0 win over Spain in Tuesday's friendly and in so doing broke the hosts' run of 34 games without a loss at home.
The Real Madrid midfielder unleashed a long-distance strike in the 89th minute that skipped off the wet grass at Balaidos Stadium and over substitute goalkeeper Kiko Casilla, marring his international debut.
A spate of injuries had left Germany manager Joachim Low with only three starters from the side that thrashed Brazil 7-1 in the World Cup semifinals, on its way to lifting the trophy. That became two when Thomas Muller hurt his back in the 22nd minute, and had to be replaced.
Spain coach Vicente del Bosque meanwhile gave international debuts to, Manuel "Nolito" Agudo and Ignacio Camacho.
The match between the last two world champions was marked by heavy rain that soaked the pitch, and forced yet another injury to Germany's squad when Meller asked to be substituted after he tried to play through a knock on his back he received from Sergio Ramos.
Rooney double secures England victory
England player ratings: Wilshere, Welbeck and Rooney excel
Guerreiro upstages Ronaldo and Messi
Spain v Germany: as it happened
While Germany were without Manuel Neuer, Marco Reus and Bastian Schweinsteiger, among others, Spain's list of injured players included Andres Iniesta, Cesc Fabregas, and David Silva, and the quality of the encounter suffered as a result.
This was the first time the two powerhouses had met since Spain beat Germany 1-0 in the semi-final of the 2010 World Cup en route to winning the title. Spain also beat Germany in the final of the 2008 European Championship.
The hosts dictated the pace throughout most of the match, but Del Bosque's side struggled to create clear-cut chances.
And Kroos's goal left Spain with another disappointing defeat, its third since the team has tried to recover from its disappointing World Cup.
Germany forward Mario Gotze had the first half's best chance in the 21st after Muller set him up, only for starting goalie Iker Casillas to make a one-handed save.
Late substitute Pedro helped produce Spain's best opportunity when he stole the ball from Kroos before he rushed forward to fire Isco's pass into the gloves of keeper Ron-Robert Zieler.

