http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/571234/s/4096e40a/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cmanchester0Eunited0C112376150CManchester0EUnited0Egoalkeeper0EDavid0Ede0EGea0Esays0Ethere0Eis0Eno0Eplace0Efor0Ecompatriot0EVictor0EValdes0Eat0EOld0ETrafford0Bhtml/story01.htm
Manchester United goalkeeper David de Gea says there is no place for compatriot Victor Valdes at Old Trafford
By Mark Ogden, Northern Football Correspondent
10:42AM GMT 18 Nov 2014
Comments
David de Gea has insisted Victor Valdés is not being lined up to replace him as Manchester United goalkeeper and claimed that he still feels ‘very loved’ at the club.
De Gea is battling to be fit for United’s trip to Arsenal this weekend after suffering a dislocated finger while training with Spain prior to last Saturday’s Euro 2016 qualifier against Belarus.
The former Atlético Madrid goalkeeper has remained with the Spain squad in order to be treated by national team physios ahead of tonight’s friendly against world champions Germany.
But with growing speculation linking De Gea with a summer move to Real Madrid coinciding with Louis van Gaal’s decision to allow former Barcelona goalkeeper Valdés to step up his comeback from a knee injury at Old Trafford, De Gea has moved to play down suggestions that the Spaniard will succeed him as United's first-choice goalkeeper.
"Yes, my contract runs out in 2016, but they didn't sign him [Valdés] for that,” De Gea told AS.
United consider Far East tour to counter losses
United to announce substantial revenue drop
Kenwright opens door for Rooney Everton return
The truth behind Falcao's ongoing knee injury
“Victor had a difficult injury, he had a bad time and the boss knows him well and has given him the opportunity to recover.
"Van Gaal knows him well because he gave Victor his debut at Barça and has a special affection for him and whenever possible we have to help where we can.
"Football is cruel at times, it's difficult. When things go well you're very good and when they go badly, well it's awful."
Danish goalkeeper Anders Lindegaard will deputise for De Gea at Arsenal if the Spaniard fails to recover in time, with Valdés continuing to be a free agent and not yet registered with the Premier League.
“Victor is training over in Manchester, but he's still not 100 per cent after his injury,” De Gea added.
“When he is fully fit he will start to train with us, but he's still not training in goal with us.
“From time to time he comes out with the goalkeeping coach, but very little still.”
Meanwhile, De Gea has played down interest from Real by insisting he remains happy at United.
“I feel very loved at Manchester United,” he said. "It's difficult to know whether an offer will come from Real Madrid because there's chatter in the press, but I feel very wanted in Manchester.”
