Team Sky general manager Sir Dave Brailsford to shake things up for new era ahead of new WorldTour season
By Tom Cary, Cycling Correspondent, in Alcudia, Majorca
8:15PM GMT 11 Jan 2015
Comments
It is traditional, after an under­whelming season, for sporting managers and coaches to talk of beginning a “new chapter”. But when Sir Dave Brailsford used those dreaded words on Sunday at Team Sky’s annual pre‑season media day, they carried more weight than one would normally credit them with.
Brailsford is not a man content to stand still. As soon as Team Sky’s Tour de France began to implode last year after Chris Froome’s exit, he was looking ahead to this season, worrying whether the creeping onset of complacency had contributed to what he felt was an uncharacteristic a lack of “ambition”, wondering how he could shake things up.
The results of his brainstorming are contained in a little black book he has been carrying around with him at Sky’s winter training camps.
It is now five years since the team made a winning debut in Australia, and having succeeded spectacularly with his first five-year plan – to win the Tour de France with a British rider (Sky won in 2012 and 2013) – Brailsford is plotting the next five. He was reluctant to give too much away in case he gives rival teams ideas but he admits to looking to Nasa, the military, even the Institute of Naval Medicine, for inspiration.
“You increase human performance by being informed by science and technology and the smallest details,” Brailsford said on Sunday after putting journalists through their paces on a training ride.
Froome on a mission to conquer the Tour – and Contador – in 2015
'I've done everything - and I still want more'
Team 'Wiggins' launched
Sky give Porte strong backing Down Under
Contador identifies Froome as his No 1 threat
Wiggins confirms Team Sky exit
“Just in the last period the advances in technology and human applications... it’s just exploding. There’s a lot of new tech around and so it’s quite an exciting area when you look forward to 2020 and what people will be doing then. I think people will be using a lot of different technologies than we are potentially using now.”
Sleep patterns and the use of cranial stimulation via magnets are two areas thought to interest him. Any truth in that? “We’ve done pretty well for other cycling teams over the last five years helping them out,” he said, declining to go into further detail.
One area in which Brailsford is extremely confident that he has strengthened his team is in personnel. The signings of Nicolas Roche – son of 1987 Tour champion Stephen – Wout Poels, Leopold Konig, Andy Fenn and Italian sprinter Elia Viviani have contributed to what Froome believes to be the “strongest all-round team” Sky have ever had.
“Interesting really, in terms of how do you define strongest team,” Brailsford said. “We won the Tour de France twice to be fair so they were pretty good teams. I think the analysis ultimately is in the outcome. But ultimately in terms of pure talent and ability, we’ve got some great strength in depth. If it’s on top form I think it would be the strongest team, it’s been a lot of fun to be around. It’s a great group dynamic.”
There have been questions as to what impact the advent of established riders might have on the British talent awaiting their turn to shine. The likes of Peter Kennaugh, Geraint Thomas, Ben Swift and Luke Rowe.
Brailsford said that he was confident it would create “upward pressure” which would benefit the team as a whole. “It’s a very dynamic thing managing a team. It’s like having different kids – you parent one kid and they’re brilliant but if you parent your second child in the same way they turn out to be a nightmare. So with signings, you look at your strengths and your weaknesses and then look at what’s available out there.”
Roche, Brailsford said, had been signed for his experience and willingness to “sacrifice” for the good of the team, which basically means his willingness to work for Froome; Konig for his “potential”; Poels, “a punchy climber”, he tried to sign two years ago; Fenn is a “classic, developing, young British talent”; and Viviani because he wants Sky to become “serious about sprinting again”.
Brailsford, who stepped down from British Cycling last April to concentrate on leading Team Sky, concluded by saying that he feels he has been vindicated by that decision. “I think it was right for British Cycling, which goes from strength to strength.
“From my point of view it’s a clear focus now and it certainly feels after the first five years that we are starting a new chapter. There’s an energy. Everybody’s hungry. It feels fantastic, to be honest. It’s really exciting.”

