http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/671040/s/43abc3c0/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Ccycling0Ctrack0Ecycling0C114281750CGreat0EBritains0Egolden0Egirl0ELaura0ETrott0Ehas0Eto0Esettle0Efor0Eomnium0Esilver0Eat0Ethe0ETrack0ECycling0EWorld0EChampionships0Bhtml/story01.htm
Great Britain's golden girl Laura Trott has to settle for omnium silver at the Track Cycling World Championships
By Tom Cary, Cycling Correspondent, in Paris
8:00PM GMT 22 Feb 2015
Comments
A hugely disappointing world track championships for Great Britain – their worst for 14 years in terms of medals – ended on Sunday night with Laura Trott unable to win gold in the omnium and Shane Sutton, the technical director, joking that someone might need to “bring a gun” next year if results are as bad.
Trott, for whom this was a third successive world omnium silver after claiming the world and Olympic titles in 2012, was well beaten in the end by the Australian Annette Edmondson. While her silver was highly commend­able, and ensured that Britain left these championships with three ­medals in total following silver medals in the men’s and women’s team pursuit earlier in the week, the performance of the squad as a whole has raised difficult questions with less than 18 months to go until the Rio Games in 2016.
Sutton insisted on Sunday night that there was no need to panic, claiming that he was happy with the attitude and indeed the performances of “most” of his squad and stressing that recent changes to the GB coaching structure would bear fruit in time for Brazil. And it is certainly true that there are positive signs as well as negative, nearly all on the endurance side.
However, the once-mighty British team will certainly have departed Paris with a queasy feeling in their stomachs – and not just because of the vomiting bug that struck the camp over the weekend. The statistics do not lie. Great Britain won 11 and nine medals respectively in the years preceding Beijing 2008 and London 2012. Sutton did not try to dispute that he no longer has the depth of talent he once did at his disposal.
“For sure,” he said. “There are no two ways about that. I don’t want to get into the Vicky Pendletons and Chris Hoys and Jason Queallys and MacLeans. They were greats of their time. It’s been a massive thing [for this squad] to overcome.”
Sutton questions hunger after Britons flop again
Team Sky enjoy brace of wins
British hopes rest with golden girl in Paris
Britain's women's pursuit team thrashed by Australia
Trott, GB’s golden girl at London 2012, was certainly carrying an inordinate amount of pressure into the second day of the six-discipline omnium for someone still barely out of her teens.
Lying third overnight, the double Olympic champion moved up to second overall on Sunday after the opening discipline, the 500m time trial. But with Edmondson ­winning that event and the flying lap as well, Trott trailed by 14 points heading into the final event: the points race. Although the Briton managed to win the fifth sprint of the race to close the gap to 11 points, Edmondson struck back almost immediately, winning two sprints of her own to establish a virtually unassailable 18-point lead.
In the end it was all Trott could do to hang on to her silver with the Dutchwoman Kirsten Wild claiming the final sprint of the race to finish just one point behind the Briton.
“I guess some people are going to be like, 'Oh, she’s only got silver’. But I am really happy with it,” Trott claimed. “After the scratch race [on Saturday, in which she placed 13th] I’d never have imagined I was even going to get a medal.”
Trott added that she was confident that the squad would lift itself for the world championships in London next year, and in Rio for the Olympic Games six months later. “Not for me personally,” she replied when asked whether it felt like the week had been a failure. “Other people on the outside world may think like that. This time before London I finished 16th in the omnium and I won the event the following year, so anything can happen in a year.”
That is Sutton’s hope. The Australian was furious with his squad this time 12 months ago after they won five medals in Colombia (all of them by women). But this time he preferred to stress the positives. “I think people need to understand that Iain [Dyer, GB head coach] and I have not been in our [current] positions for long. I have had my feet under the table for nine months. “I think I read ­somewhere that I said 'heads will have to roll if we don’t perform’. I don’t see it like that at all. In saying that, it’s the worlds and I’ve got to answer the criticism.”
Sutton, who began these championships promising that his riders were in Paris “to be judged”, ended by saying we would have “more of a gauge” as to Olympic medal potential after the track world championships in London next year. “What you’ve got to remember is that going into Rio we hope we’ll be walking into the track centre with the likes of Brad Wiggins, Jason Kenny stepping up to the plate and people looking up and taking notice again. In 12 months’ time hopefully everyone will have their mojo back and we’ll have a different conver­sation Hopefully. If not, someone bring a gun.”
