UFC light-heavyweight Ryan Bader relishing prospect of 'long overdue' Phil Davis fight in Stockholm
By Gareth A Davies, MMA Correspondent
9:00AM GMT 16 Dec 2014
Comments
Ryan Bader is a dark horse in the UFC light-heavyweight division with great skills and, on his day, is as good as anyone, including Jon Jones. He has natural athleticism, heavy hands and the work ethic of a formidable wrestler.
Remarkably, Phil Davis, who has similar credentials, has never been face to face with Bader in mixed martial arts despite the pair being talked about as potential title contenders. Stockholm will decided who gets the standing for now.
On the day we speak, it is raining in Arizona. It is a rarity. But Bader doesn't mind. He wants to feel 'the grind' for when he faces Davis at the Tele2 Arena in Stockholm on Jan 24, when 30,000 fans are expected to swell the arena.
"Even in the winter, it's pretty mild. But when it rains, it really rains pretty hard. There's plenty of flooding and stuff. It's good, it's getting me ready for Sweden and that dark, cold place over there," Bader told Telegraph Sport.
"I heard it gets dark around 3pm, so that's good for me. It reminds me of those old college wrestling days when we'd go to the mid-west and it would be snowing and dark and we'd have to go wrestle in a dark gym.
'Would Reebok make me a kilt for UFC Scotland?'
All the action from UFC 181
14 things we learnt from UFC 181
Daly prepared for TUF 20 finale in Las Vegas
"It kind of helps you to get motivated to go to war. There's no distractions outside. It's not like you're at the beach and you're thinking: 'Oh man, I could be swimming in that water right now.' You've got one job to do and that's fight.
"It will be good for me. There's one thing to do here and that's go out and win this fight. You're stuck in your hotel room, you're getting a little anxious and all you want to do is release that energy. You can't wait for fight night. I kind of like that about fighting in the winter and in cold places."

Bader can't wait to pit himself against Davis, who beat him as a college wrestler in their one match. "This has been a long time overdue here. We have similar styles and we've both been there in the top 10 for a long time. For me, this is a fight we've wanted for a long time.
"We've always wanted to fight Phil. He's a good guy and a good fighter, but I think our similar styles make for a great fight. He's top five and has just beaten Glover Teixeira and I don't want to stick around on the backside of the top ten. I want to move up in to the top five and go out and have a great fight and have people talking about me as a top contender. That's what I want to use this fight for."
Bader added: "If you look at my record I've fought all the former champions and Glover. I've got four losses on my record. It happens. I was doing well against Glover and then made a mistake at the end and got careless and wild. I'm going to learn from the losses.
"I'm a totally different fighter to the guy who fought Machida in 2012. The fighter I am now would whoop that guy's ass. I made a mistake against Glover and I've had to go back and learn from that. I'm not going to dwell on it or slip in to a depression," Bader told Telegraph Sport.
"It's like, alright, it happens, I've got to let it go and I've got to come out and be better next time. For me, it's just about evolving and having the right people around you. I can tell now, from being in the sport for so long, who are the good coaches and the good people to be associated with.
"Before I didn't know any better. It was hit and miss. It was like exercise – we weren't really learning. Now that we know better, we have the right people around. I'm doing all the right stuff. It's no longer a case of just going out there and having fun – I'm there to do a job.
"It's more of a career for me now. So I need to make that next step. This is my chance. I've been here before – I've had chances to break in to that top five or top three. Now I've got another chance. I don't want to be number seven or eight. I want to be number one eventually."
Bader believes all the losses have brought him to a level of honesty and wisdom about his own fighting style, and capabilities. "If I'd have won those fights, I'd have paid for it in the long run. I'd be fighting those top, top guys and I wouldn't have had the skill-set to survive. I'd still be doing the wrong things. For me, this is my time."
Going away to foreign climes, he asserts, suits him. "I like the whole mindset of going away to do a job, no distractions. All I have around me is my coaching staff and friends and family members who are all in the same mindset. They're all there to see me win my fight. I like it.
"I like travelling, I like going to new places and fighting in front of new crowds. It gives me a good energy. We've got a big stadium in Sweden and it's sold out. They're going to bring the energy and I'll feed off that. For me, it's like the old-school wrestling days. We'd travel every weekend to these tiny mid-west towns and go in there and wrestle. You'd just get the job done. I like that mindset."
Let's be honest, there is an incredible set of athletes in the top 10 of the 205lbs division, a group of men who might excel in any sport. Bader might have been just as adept on several other sporting platforms. He agrees.
"If you look at our division there is all different kinds of skill-sets and all different kinds of bodies. It's an exciting time to be in this light-heavyweight division. There's a bunch of killers all there in the top 10 and the top 15 for that matter. I'm just surprised Phil Davis and I haven't fought earlier. Now's the time and I'm really excited for this one."
As for the new Reebok deal coming out with the UFC in the summer, Bader has already had a gentle look. "We haven't heard any numbers or anything like that yet. For me, I make good money on sponsors. I'm going to have to make up that money somehow.
"At the end of the day, I'm worried about getting close to the title and winning that title. That's what matters most to me. But being in the top five and getting more money in the Reebok deal is just icing on the cake. I want to be in the top five because it means I'm closer to that title, though.
"We've been hearing whispers about this for maybe a year. The managers kept us in the loop a little bit. We were kind of prepared for it and this and that. We didn't know the full details or whether we'd be able to have a couple of sponsors that we could still use or if there was going to be none.
"We didn't know about the money, either. We knew this was coming, we just didn't know exactly what it was all about. We didn't know every detail. It will effect me. I have some bigger deals with Monster Milk. They're up here in December and I know they want to be seen in the Octagon and all that."
UFC middleweight champion Chris Weidman also has a sponsorship deal with Monster Milk.
"We've definitely developed a lot of great relationships with our different sponsors and hopefully they stick with us even though they can't be in the cage," explained Bader. "That would be awesome. Then you can make your money with them, too, outside of the cage and also make the Reebok money. We'll just adapt and figure it out. We haven't heard any numbers yet. I've got a great manager in Dave Martin and he was killing it for us with sponsors. I might lose money in the beginning but we'll figure it out and end up making it work, for sure."
UFC Stockholm card to date: Light Heavyweight Alexander Gustafsson vs. Anthony Johnson (UFC light heavyweight title eliminator) Middleweight Dan Henderson vs. Gegard Mousasi Light Heavyweight Phil Davis vs. Ryan Bader Welterweight Nico Musoke vs. Albert Tumenov Welterweight Kenny Robertson vs. Sultan Aliev Heavyweight Viktor Pešta vs. Konstantin Erokhin Lightweight Yan Cabral vs. Mairbek Taisumov Light Heavyweight Nikita Krylov vs. Stanislav Nedkov
Tickets are on sale for UFC Fight Night: Gustafsson vs. Johnson via

