UFC: 10 things we learnt at the TUF 20 Finale where new champion Carla Esparza was crowned
By Gareth A Davies, MMA Correspondent, Las Vegas
5:00PM GMT 13 Dec 2014
Comments
1. Carla Esparza is a true champion, and a true technician in the sport. The way she dominated and controlled the very first UFC strawweight title battle was incredible with relentless pressure, takedowns, and control of position.
2. Rose Namajunas, a huge star of The Ultimate Fighter 20 series for her manner in general and her victories, will come again, challenge for the belt and could be a future champion. She looked inconsolable afterwards, even as she dutifully signed autographs and took pictures with her many fans.
3. JoJo Calderwood can't stay away from the gym. She'll be back there on Monday morning. (Calderwood defeated Seo Hee Ham by unanimous decision 30-27, 30-27, 30-26.)
4. Calderwood has an appeal not only to Scottish fans, which will help sell out the first event there potentially next summer, but it was clear from reaction to her that the Scotswoman has a cult following. She said: "I think fans identify with me because I represent myself and the sport well and in return I like to make the fans proud of their support.”
5. Aisling Daly needs to get the weight cut right. Paddy Holohan, her cornerman and the UFC flyweight who was with her here in Las Vegas, has said it "will never happen again". (She was winner by armbar submission, Rd 1 against Alex Chambers.)
TUF 20 Finale gallery from Las Vegas
TUF 20 Finale: live
6. Daly is rocking the Irish MMA wave: "Put Conor [McGregor] as the main event in Dublin, me as the co-main event and bill it as the King and Queen of Irish MMA.”
7. No Contest: KJ Noons and Daron Cruickshank. Two brilliant fan-pleasing fighters in a no go because of an accidental finger in the eye of Cruickshank. Eye poke penalties, potentially a point deduction, or the loss of a round, as raised by UFC president Dana White could gather steam. As he said, it would encourage all fighters to close their hands when striking. Views?
8. The 115lbs weight class for women is set to grow and grow. It's a weight class which female fighters look phenomenal in.
9. The hair-pulling needs to be monitored more closely ref: Felice Herrig vs. Lisa Ellis.

Ugh the 15ers w/their hair pulling #TUF20

Herrig just full on pulled ellis’ hair to get her head into a triangle and uses it to transition to armbar ftw. #cheap #tuf20finale
10. If Claudia Gadelha (undefeated 12-0) wins against Joanna Jedrzejczyk, White says it "makes sense" for the Brazilian to be the first challenger to Esparza's crown. They were due to meet in the Invicta Women's championship anyway.
Re-cap the event with the live blog here.

