The fearless women taking on the Volvo Ocean Race
Volvo Ocean Race: meet the women conquering the waves
By Olivia Parker
7:00AM BST 10 Oct 2014
Comments
Early tomorrow morning, 12 extraordinary women will wake up in the port of Alicante, east Spain, dress in their bright blue and magenta sailing kit and fuel up with a good breakfast, before preparing to sail around the world.
This is Team SCA, made up of 11 crew and one on-board reporter: the first all-female team to compete in a round-the-world Volvo Ocean Race since 2001; and tomorrow is the day that thousands will watch their departure alongside their six rival, all-male, teams.
The Race Village set up along Alicante’s harbour will be buzzing with movement and nerves as nearly two years of planning and training reaches its pinnacle. Team SCA will spend their last few hours on shore fulfilling a few commitments to their sponsor SCA, a Swedish hygiene and forest products company, before the goose-bump-inducing sounds of their official team song, Wake Me Up by Avicii, accompany them on board. Finally, they will say goodbye. The three mothers in the crew will kiss their small sons one last time and, at around midday, they will hoist their sails and wave to the crowds, bound for Cape Town.
Facing them on this leg, the first of nine before they arrive in Gothenburg, Sweden, in June next year, are 6,487 nautical miles (7,465 miles) of ocean. This will take between 23 and 28 days to sail, during which time the girls will work and sleep around the clock in four-hour-on, four-hour-off shifts.
This enormous first leg is not a gentle start. The route takes them through the Mediterranean, where conditions are currently perfect for storm development; the Doldrums, which race meteorologist Gonzalo Infante describes as “the extreme expression of Mother Nature’s versatility”; and finally the petulant waters of the south Atlantic, where waves can reach 100ft (30m) high.
Ainslie desperate to make history in America's Cup
Ainslie: it would be 'massive' for UK to win America's Cup
Half-term activities for every child in the house
Best kids waterproofs for rainy day adventures
'Without family meals, when would we have a proper conversation?'
Caffari's special voyage
“I am nervous,” admits crew member Abby Ehler when I meet her in Alicante during one of their last training sessions before the race. Abby, 38, is one of five British women on the team (the others are American, Swiss, Australian and Dutch) and mother to Harley, who turns three this month. In 2001 she was a member of Lisa McDonald’s Ocean Race team, making her one of only two of the SCA girls with prior experience of the race.
“Some of the conditions you get are just extreme,” she remembers. “It’s low wind and really hot in the Tropics and then it’s rough and wild… I remember thinking we were on a rollercoaster ride. It’s that adrenalin rush of not really being in control because there’s no brake on these boats; you can’t just put your foot down if you think you’re going too fast and pull back. It’s just about hanging on.”

The team with two of their coaches in the harbour in Alicante before setting off [PHOTO: GEOFF PUGH]
There’s a general consensus among everyone involved with Team SCA – from their three coaches, who have 12 Ocean Races between them, to the “shore team” who will follow the boat from port to port to patch it up – that the girls in particular are about to launch themselves into a very wide and scary unknown. The men’s teams are for the most part hugely experienced, having a combined total of 81 Ocean Race attempts between them. A few have been racing it since before some of the girls were born.
“If the men come out shaking, the [girls will] definitely come out shaking,” says Carlos Guimaraes, one of SCA’s shore crew. “It’s a hard game.” In the course of the race’s 41-year history, boats have hit rocks, masts have snapped and sailors have died after being swept overboard in extreme weather. The teams have to cope with temperatures ranging from close to freezing in the Antarctic, when there’s a danger of icebergs and it is so cold that condensation inside the boat drips off the walls, to more than 40 degrees in the Tropics. Other, more unusual hazards line the route, from flying fish that can strafe the deck like small missiles, to sleeping whales, which tend to make nasty holes in boat walls. There is even the threat of piracy, although race CEO Knut Frostad says that he does not expect to have to interrupt this year’s race for that reason.
For the girls, the physical limitations of their bodies are as obvious a disadvantage as their lack of experience. I watched (from the safety of a RIB) as they sailed out to practise race starts. The democratically named “person in charge” of Team SCA, Brit Sam Davies, 40, takes the helm while each crew member hauls at the workings of the boat: the human cogs powering a very large machine. Changing direction requires three minutes of maximum-power “grinding”, pumping unwieldy cog handles at full speed to control the sails. “It’s very arm or upper-body orientated, like trying to lift a sack of potatoes 100 times,” says Abby. Then there’s the “stack”, around 500kg of supplies stored inside the boat, plus close to a ton of sail weight on deck, that have to be shifted from side to side whenever the boat turns. The girls will need to take in around 5,000 to 6,000 calories a day to maintain their energy.

British Olympic sailor Annie Lush at the winches [PHOTO: GEOFF PUGH]
“It’s hard work,” says head coach Brad Jackson, from New Zealand. He has helped train the girls on a gym programme of 45 to 70 minutes, five to seven days a week since January 2013, when selection began. Most of the crew have Olympic and/or serious global race experiences behind them (the team includes British sailor Dee Caffari, 41, the first woman to sail alone, non-stop, around the world in both directions), but Jackson’s programme has tested their physical limits: “I don’t know how much harder we could push before people don’t want to be here any more,” he says.
Even after months of drills, the difference in strength is evident when the girls stand shoulder to shoulder with their male rivals. To allow for this, SCA are allowed 11 crew members to the men’s eight. It means more hands on deck, but also more bodies to live with inside. This year the race organisers have, for the first time, introduced a “one design” policy for safety reasons, so every team will compete in a standardised monohull yacht called the Volvo Ocean 65.
Dee showed me around below deck, where the 12 girls will share their 25 sq m cabin space with all their supplies and a tiny navigation room.
“Cooking”, if you can call it that since food consists of freeze-dried sachets rehydrated with boiling water, is done on two small stoves in the middle of the cabin. The team is only allowed to carry enough food – plus snacks, which are traded as currency among the girls – for the calculated time at sea plus two days, so their supplies are rationed to one meal every eight hours. They will each drink about six litres of desalinated water a day and every third bottle will contain an electrolyte tablet. The “bathroom” is a kind of suspended potty in the middle of the boat.
The small living space fills me with horror but the girls seem calm about it, particularly solo sailor Dee, who is delighted at the prospect of sharing the race with any company at all. “It’ll be very relaxing,” she grins: “Eleven other people to share the work with. When you’re solo it’s all your responsibility but, this time, it’s not all up to me.”
Once out in the ocean they will sleep on carbon-fibre bunks, always on the windward side of the boat. Seat belts will hold them in place during rough weather. But the precious hours of downtime aren’t likely to be very restful. “Very rarely do you get that complete time because if they were to call a sail change or you needed to change the direction of the boat then everybody needs to get up and help,” explains Abby. “The beds are actually not too bad. It’s more the noise that’s going around you, whether it’s the winches [these sound oddly like a whale’s call, deep and very loud], or they’re trimming the sails, or the engine might be running because you’re charging batteries… there’s a lot of peripheral noise.” Earplugs are essential, as are iPods – both for blocking out the racket and storing photos and videos of families.

Dee Caffari bunks down below deck [PHOTO: GEOFF PUGH]
The three mothers on board – Abby, Sam and Carolijn Brouwer, from Holland, who also has a three-year-old boy, Kyle – have well-tested ways of preparing their children for long trips. Sam leaves iPod videos of herself for her son Reuben, three (below), to watch and she will be able to email him occasionally as well. All of the children, however, are already pretty well-versed in their mothers’ adventurous lifestyles. “[Reuben] understands what I do,” says Sam, who has previously competed twice in the Vendée Globe, a round-the-world single-handed yacht race, and three times in the Transat Jacques Vabre race from France to Brazil. “I’m not sure he knows what the world is yet at the age of three but he does know that his mum goes off sailing with the girls and with his friends’ mums.”
“Often when I’ve come back [into harbour] over the last few days he’s said 'oh, you’re back!’ He’s almost surprised.”

Skipper Sam Davies with Reuben, three, and her partner Romain Attanasio
The mental demands of life on board won’t leave anyone much time for reflection. Each crew member has extra responsibilities, whether as a trained medic, sailmaker or navigator – and it is here that the girls hope they may hold at least one advantage over the men. Mapping the weather and planning the route accordingly is one of the most stressful jobs on board but with seven years at the Met Office and a further seven with the British Olympic sailing team, navigator Libby Greenhalgh, 34, has a thorough understanding of meteorological matters. “People quote 'the race is won or lost by the navigator’,” she laughs, “but it’s not the case, I would like to say, before they start pinning the blame on me!”
The girls’ sponsor may prove to be another advantage. SCA is the owner of household hygiene brands such as Cushelle (loo roll), Tork (hand towels) and Bodyform (feminine hygiene), so at least keeping clean isn’t a concern. “We’ve got shower cap things that you put on and create shampoo, and different kinds of wipes,” explains Libby. “You can still have a wash with salt water and you can get salt water shower gels and things like that. I think it will be pretty interesting when we’re wafting around in the heat of the Doldrums, though.”
The girls’ dry humour will no doubt serve them well. How do they rate their chances? “I know we are in for a surprise, and I hope we’ve done everything to prepare for that,” says Sam. “But we’ll enjoy it, for sure, and the important thing for us is to be proud of ourselves, knowing we’ve done everything we could and that we didn’t make too many stupid mistakes.”
It will take a superhuman effort to get to Gothenburg but from tomorrow, the girls will finally be on their way.
TEAM SCA FACTS AND STATS
The average age of the girls is 33. Race rules state that at least two people in each crew must be under 30.
The sponsor, SCA, sells more than 80 per cent of its products globally to women.
When they set off, each of the girls will be able to bench press on average 80 per cent of their body weight and complete 15 pull-ups. While out on the ocean, they are expected to lose between 15 to 20 per cent of their cardio, flexibility and strength and as much as 17lbs (7.7kgs) in weight.
Crown Princess Victoria of Sweden is the Honorary Godmother of the Team SCA boat and crew. When she met them, the Princess gave the crew a lucky coin embossed with her portrait to take around the world.
While the girls are sailing, two identical freight containers with spare supplies and kit will leapfrog each other around the globe to meet them at every port and act as a shore base.

Team SCA on one of their final training sessions just outside Alicante [PHOTO: GEOFF PUGH]
RACE HISTORY
The Volvo Ocean Race began life in 1973 as the Whitbread Round the World race.
Seventeen yachts entered the first competition, which left Portsmouth on September 8 and the winning boat, a Mexican yacht, arrived home 133 days later.
Since then, the race has taken place every three years. Points are awarded at the end of each leg: one for first place, two for second and so on, so the overall race winner will be the team with the lowest number of points. The Dutch hold the record for the most wins, coming first in 1977-8, 1981-2 and 2005-6.
In 2005 the race organisers introduced in-port races at every host city on the route. These last for 45 to 60 minutes and also count towards a team’s overall score.
As in the Olympics, there is no cash prize for the winning crew.
Instead they will be presented with the Volvo Ocean Race trophy, to which an engraved aluminium and silver ring is added every year to mark each new edition of the race.
FOLLOW THE GIRLS
Download the team’s free app from the Apple Store by searching for Team SCA. This has the latest updates live from the girls as well as quizzes and information about the race.
You can also follow the girls on Twitter and on Instagram for beautiful ocean photos.

