http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/616203/s/20f91d94/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Csailing0Cvolvo0Eocean0Erace0C93336360CLondon0E20A120EOlympic0Esailing0Esuccess0Eshould0Einspire0Eall0EBritish0EVolvo0EOcean0ERace0Etilt0Esays0ETracy0EEdwards0Bhtml/story01.htm
London 2012 Olympic sailing success should inspire all-British Volvo Ocean Race tilt, says Tracy Edwards
By Rod Gilmour
6:00PM BST 03 Jul 2012
Comments
That anticipated success has led Tracy Edwards, who skippered the first all-female crew to sail round the world in 1989, to call for an all-British crew to attempt the next edition of the Volvo Ocean Race.
“It would be the perfect opportunity," Edwards told Telegraph Sport: "It would be great if someone was already focusing on a big campaign and thinking about a future project."
Ian Walker, the two-time Olympic medallist from the Sydney Games, was Britain’s only skipper in this year’s race, which finished its final offshore leg in Galway on Tuesday after eight highly-eventful months.
In that time, Walker has endured a rollercoaster campaign with Emirati-based Abu Dhabi Racing. The 40 year-old finished fifth of six boats but the Hampshire sailor has picked up three in-port wins - the final race takes place on Saturday - as well as a memorable victory on leg five to Lisbon.
But this came after five months of misery following constant boat problems, which scuppered any initial hopes of a podium place.
Ali considered for torch role
Groupama seal overall victory
The pain and glory
The closest race of all
Volvo's onboard pin-ups
Charting the Race
A British skipper has never won the nine-month race - formerly known as the Whitbread. British crews have also been in short supply since Lawrie Smith, Lisa McDonald and Edwards led campaigns in the Eighties and early Nineties.
“It would be great if the Olympics could be used as a source of momentum [for British entrants into the Volvo Race]," Edwards added.
“I’m convinced our sailing team will do spectacularly well at the Olympics anyway, so why not ride that wave of success?”
Edwards said her “dream team” would comprise Brian Thompson as skipper alongside Walker.
“Ian is a brilliant skipper and there are still lots of things he can improve on in his campaign,” she said.
Volvo Ocean Race organisers last week announced changes for the next edition, which will see a new boat design. The aim is for a minimum of eight boats to be equal in both performance and reliability, and to reduce the cost of mounting a competitive campaign.
Meanwhile, four British cities are set to make a bid for one of the scheduled stopovers in the 2013-14 race ahead of the November deadline.
Follow Telegraph Sport's unrivalled coverage of Volvo Race.
