Volvo Ocean Race: organisers to introduce brand new fleet of high performance racing yachts
By Kate Laven
11:29AM BST 28 Jun 2012
Comments
In a radical departure from the race tradition which has underpinned most of the major developments in yacht racing design and technology over the past 39 years, organisers have unveiled plans to introduce a fleet of identical 65 foot monohulls, designed to be equal in performance and reliability.
They will be built by British boatbuilders Green Marine and priced at €4.5m, around €1m less than the current Volvo 70s which are designed to a box rule giving scope to push boundaries with rigging and other speed enhancing innovations.
The idea behind the change is to reduce the cost of mounting a competitive campaign and increase the number of entries to between eight and 10 in future races.
There are currently six boats competing in the Volvo Ocean Race. While this is mainly down to the prevailing economic climate throughout the world, it represents the smallest fleet ever in the history of the race.
"Our clear goal throughout the planning process for the next race has been to make it easier and less costly to mount a campaign in the next race. This is a big step towards that goal," said Knut Frostad, the race's chief executive officer.
Tunes for high seas
Briton wants elusive win with Telefonica
McDonald up for final shot
Who will win Leg 9?
Proposals for the new boat have been bounced off existing sponsors, some of whom have ploughed around €30m into their 2011-12 campaigns, as well as potential sponsors who have expressed an interest in mounting a future campaign, which Frostad estimates should not cost more than €15m.
But the news has had a mixed reception among the yacht racing community who are worried the race's boast that it drives marine technology, in the same way that F1 drives the technology of the automotive industry, will be a thing of the past.
"I can see it makes commercial sense but I think it is a shame," said Jason Carrington, who has been involved as either a sailor or boatbuilder in the past five races.
"It is sad that designers like Juan Kouyoumdjian who has designed some pretty cool boats for this race won't get the chance to do any more. I think there would have been some merit in launching one set of hull lines so there was still a chance for designers to fix the rigging, rudders and the foil.
One of the most interesting aspects of the race – the cutting edge technology – is going to go."
The new boat will be designed by Farr Yacht Design, based in the US. Finance has been put in place to build a minimum of eight boats with the price tag set to include sails and a sophisticated media production station to allow a greater flow of video and other content from the boats.
They will be raced by eight crew – ten if it is an all-women's boat – plus one media crew member, which amounts to two less than the current arrangements. Work on building the new boat will start in August with the first boat due to be launched in June 2013, more than a year before the start of the next race in 2014.

