http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2014/08/27/hillary-clinton-has-to-throw-obama-under-the-bus-to-win-in-2016
Hillary Has to Throw Obama Under the Bus
The 2016 presidential contest is already being shaped by the events going on around us.
From the ethnic cleansing in the Middle East to the riots in Ferguson, Missouri, the things happening now are generating themes the candidates in the next presidential contest will have to address, especially in the national security area which, all evidence to the contrary aside, has been relegated to the back bench in the last two presidential elections because issues here at home took precedence with the American voter.
If you’re former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, this is a scenario that plays to your strengths but also to your weaknesses. She can discuss foreign policy in great detail, outlining a vision for America’s role in the world that could be compelling and attractive, even to the neo-isolationists in the mainstream of the Democratic Party and on the fringe of the GOP.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on the Middle East]
At the same time she is going to have to answer, finally, tough questions about Benghazi, about Egypt, about the war on terror and about other issues that arose on her watch. In essence, she is going to have to be an apologist for the Obama administration’s foreign policy, both the portion she oversaw and for those things that happened after she left to sell her book and to prepare for her second run for the White House.
This is not an advantageous position. President Barack Obama’s surprising return in the face of criticism from his vacation on Martha’s Vineyard suggests even private polls are showing that key voter blocs think the president is too disengaged from his work. His foreign policy, which started off with such promise, has turned into a giant lemon. Clinton has to figure out how to take that and make lemonade.
It won’t be easy. There are ways to do it, but they involve turning on her president, something her patron, mentor and chief adviser is no doubt eager for her to do.
[GALLERY: Cartoons on Hillary Clinton]
Former President Bill Clinton – who is likely to take a much more hands-on approach to the management of his wife’s 2016 campaign than he did in 2008, is the master of triangulation. He is no doubt already trying to figure out ways to present his wife as the effective counter to both the incompetence of the Obama administration on the left and the insanity of the tea party Republicans on the right.
It’s been done before, most notably by former (and perhaps future) French President Nicolas Sarkozy, who in 2007 managed successfully to separate himself from scandal-tainted rightest incumbent President Jacques Chirac while presenting a center-right agenda that was more appealing to French voters than the policy prescriptions put forward by Socialist Ségolène Royal. Sarkozy’s triangulation proved to be a winning combination at least once.
That’s the game plan Hillary has to follow if she wants to get back into the White House: She must demonstrate that she is smarter and more competent than Obama with better ideas for getting America back to work than her opponents the right. Her evidence for this? The eight years of relative peace and prosperity America experienced during the years her husband occupied the Oval Office. Remember their comments from 1992 about “two for one”?
[SEE: Cartoons on President Obama]
The first step down this road is to throw Obama under the bus. There’s already been some of that – like former Massachusetts Rep. Barney Frank’s public statements several weeks ago about how the current president had been dishonest in the way he sold his signature health care reform proposal to the American people.
It’s only going to get worse. Expect over the next few months to read news exclusives in prominent left-of-center publications like The New York Times and The Huffington Post – quoting “administration insiders” and the like – that Clinton was a private but vocal opponent inside the administration of many of the Obama initiatives that went wrong. That while Obama wanted to get tough on Israel, Hillary counseled caution and doing nothing that would jeopardize Israel’s territorial integrity and national security. And, above all, that her hands are clean on Benghazi even though Team Obama tried to make her the fall guy and throw her to the wolves.
Expect similar leaks on the domestic front on matters like health care, education and the rights of women and children. It will soon start to come out that, if the policy had a good outcome, she was a mover and shaker on its behalf behind the scenes and, if it had a bad outcome, she argued strongly against it to the president but was ultimately overruled.
[MORE: Cartoons on Obamacare]
All this will be possible because, as far as most Americans who vote are concerned, the age of Obama is already over. The president never managed to live up to the promise (and promises) of his 2008 run for the White House and his excuses are getting tiresome. And, with the Senate likely to go to the Republicans in the upcoming election, Obama has simply outlived his usefulness to the Democratic Party. He is, in a word, expendable – if your eye is on the long term and setting the stage for the ground game you’re going to need next time.
If he shows he can still be helpful by painting Republicans as being out of touch with the needs of middle-class Americans or by otherwise disparaging the GOP’s future electoral prospects, then his party will still defend him. But those will be short-term decisions in a long-term game, setting up the triangulation Hillary will need to have in place to become the nation’s first female president.
