http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/robert-schlesinger/2015/03/03/5-problems-with-a-supreme-court-anti-obamacare-king-v-burwell-decision
5 Problems With a Supreme Court Anti-Obamacare King v. Burwell Decision - US News
The Supreme Court will hear arguments in King v. Burwell on Wednesday, a court case that simultaneously manages to be very silly and very serious. It is silly for two reasons I laid out in my column on Monday – that the case rests on a narrative involving a secret Democratic plot to use the idea of withholding the Affordable Care Act’s tax subsidies to coerce states into establishing health insurance exchanges, a scheme which happens to provide the law’s enemies with a handy way to destroy it; and also because the law doesn’t make internal sense if you read it the way the plaintiffs argue you should.
It’s serious because this is the high court, so we’re just five votes away from this silliness causing real harm. Dead-ender conservatives, blinkered by their fixation on Obamacare, would unreservedly rejoice if the high court ruled for King but such an outcome should give just about everyone else reason for pause. “The court usually doesn’t pay an awful lot of attention to the practical questions” surrounding its cases, says Russell Wheeler of the Brookings Institution. But given the real-world stakes, the court might this time, he adds. Here are five negative consequences of a ruling for King and against Obamacare:
[SEE: Political Cartoons on Obamacare]
Real human misery. Let’s start with the most important thing – the havoc such a ruling would cause for the people and businesses currently interacting on the exchanges. As I write in my column:
The subsidies are a critical underpinning of the law; their getting knocked out of federal exchanges would result in “massive damage,” as Secretary of Health and Human Services Sylvia Burwell put it in a letter to lawmakers this week. It could trigger a death spiral in the exchanges as people who could no longer afford health insurance drop it, especially the young and healthy, leaving a smaller, sicker risk pool and thus skyrocketing rates. A RAND Corporation study released last month estimated that an adverse ruling would cause 8 million people to lose their coverage and the health insurance premiums of those who hadn’t been getting tax subsidies to rise by 47 percent. In addition, the insurance companies themselves could face insolvency, according to a letter the American Academy of Actuaries sent to Burwell this week.
The actuaries were asking Burwell for a way to adjust rates immediately in the face of a decision that guts the subsidies. The court’s decision won’t come down until after the companies have submitted their 2016 rates and they are forbidden by law to adjust them midyear. Between the prospect of a market death spiral and insolvency, “it is possible that many or all insurers would choose to exit the individual markets,” the Kaiser Family Foundation reported recently. (This wouldn’t be an easy decision: Insurers that leave the market couldn’t re-enter for five years.)
One glimmer of good news: People who had received subsidies would presumably not have to worry about repaying them. “The law is the law up until the point the Court rules otherwise,” emails Keith Fontenot, managing director of Hooper, Lundy & Bookman (and also a visiting scholar at the Brookings Institution), who worked on the Affordable Care Act when he was at the Office of Management and Budget. Of course that will be cold comfort to those suddenly faced with having to start making up the value of the disappearing subsidy going forward.
[READ: Obamacare By Any Other Name]
And those subsidies could disappear quickly. The Kaiser Family Foundation report suggested that subsidies could be cut off within a month of a decision.
A lot depends on how prescriptive the court is. “The Court is obviously aware that millions of people are receiving assistance, and that major disruption would result not just in the insurance market, but for millions of others as well – providers and many others – from an adverse decision,” Fontenot adds. “So if they were to decide adversely, they might choose to not be highly directive on the details of how that decision should be implemented, which would kick it back to the President, Congress and the States to sort out.” Hey, great – the deans of dysfunction would no doubt swing right into inaction.
One last note: While states could solve the problem by establishing exchanges, this would prove a far more complicated endeavor than it sounds, according to a January article in the New England Journal of Medicine. “If the IRS rule is invalidated … a state that has declined to create its own exchange probably won’t be able to stave off the immediate destabilizing of its insurance market,” the article asserted.
The “Moops doctrine.” I mentioned in my column that an adverse court ruling which cherry-picked the specific phrase about only people in state-created exchanges being eligible for tax subsidies and using it – removed from the context of how the law functions as a whole – to blow a hole in the act would be the legal equivalent of the famous “Moops” scene from “Seinfeld.” If you haven’t seen it, George gets into an argument with an obnoxious “Bubble Boy” because a misprinted Trivial Pursuit card says that the Moops rather than the Moors invaded Spain in the eighth century. (I cannot claim to have come up with this analogy myself – credit goes to the great Jonathan Chait.) The actually correct answer is nullified and mooted in favor of what’s on the paper, misprint or not.
[READ: Forget About Repealing Obamacare]
As President Barack Obama and others have noted, this issue could have been cleared up quickly and easily any time in the last five years (or for that matter in the immediate wake of an anti-Obamacare ruling) with a technical corrections bill, a routine piece of legislation which cleans up sloppy drafting in laws. But the "Moops doctrine" could spell the end of such legislation on a broader basis, at least for any but the most noncontroversial laws. Going forward, if 41 senators don’t like a law they can filibuster any attempt at cleaning it up and then let friendly activist lawyers pore over its text until they find some poorly written phrasing with which they can lever apart the act.
Such a Moops doctrine would enshrine and augment the current level of legislative gridlock by extending these fights past enactment and bringing them into the courts. Good times.
Real political misery. Depending upon how it’s worded, a negative ruling could be felt in weeks or months. “Certainly the full effect wouldn’t come until 2016 at the earliest,” says Evan Saltzman, a project associate at RAND who has studied the exchanges issue.
Sooner or later people will feel the effects of the decision and so in turn will their representatives. This will cause some level of political torment for those same leaders, especially Republicans torn between two compelling and competing sets of demands. On the one hand will be solve-this demands from constituents enraged by spiraling costs and insurers aghast at diminishing customers and the prospect of insolvency.
[See: Editorial Cartoons on Barack Obama ]
On the other hand will be movement conservatives who – steeled against real-world complaints of the moment by their faith in the ultimate rightness of the free market – will see in this human misery the death throes of the tyrannical Obamacare. The thinking would go that any short-term complaints would fade as people recover from the narcotic quality of government largesse. It’s They’ll greet us as liberators logic, but updated – They’ll thank us as liberators later.
Add on the fact that the states which declined to set up their own exchanges (and often refused to expand Medicaid) are not only red states but are poorer states (and so per the RAND study will be harder hit by the removal of subsidies) and, as Greg Sargent reported last week, are seeing significant drops in their uninsured rates because of the federal exchanges. This makes for a more potent mix of pressures than one might think at first blush. You can see the early effects of that mix in the news that some Republicans are trying to figure out a way to make up for the lost subsidies with some other government expenditure.
Disorder in the courts. The line of argument in the King case was widely derided as preposterous (or flat ignored it for that reason) right up until federal judges started taking it seriously. But as already indicated, there’s good reason to see it as an intellectually unserious vehicle for the very serious, very ideological exercise of torpedoing Obamacare. To the extent to which the Supreme Court does this it will bring scorn upon itself in a way not seen since Bush v. Gore as a political body enacting a partisan agenda. Gallup’s polling shows a steady decline in approval of the court in recent years, from a high of 61 percent approving in late August and early September of 2009 to an underwater rating of 44 percent approving and 48 percent disapproving last September. Suffice it to say that it’s not good for the country to increasingly view the high court as hacks, but then again it’s also not good for the high court to actually behave like hacks.
[READ: Obamacare on Trial]
There’s another component here as well: The Supremes ruling that a law didn’t do what its drafters clearly intended it to do, and what for years everyone involved assumed it did, would open a new branch of judicial activism. “If that was the standard that the court applied to all cases, we would suddenly have a bunch of monarchs sitting in the court deciding what a statute ought to mean – I think that would be pretty shocking to everyone,” says Caroline Fredrickson of the American Constitution Society.
Obamacare on life support … or steroids? There’s a case to be made that if the government loses the King case, Obamacare would be crippled in 34 states – the absence of subsidies would eliminate the employer mandate and would make most of the uninsured eligible for a hardship exemption from the individual mandate. Add to that the fact that private markets would be wrecked in those states both because the only people in them would be the sick and because insurers would be prohibited from cutting off coverage or discriminating against people with previous conditions. Republican governors and legislators wouldn’t be the only ones under pressure to do something, so too would be President Obama, though it seems terrifically unlikely that he would blink.
I should note that Chait makes a plausible case that the opposite would take place. “Congress probably would be forced to act, and if it fails, many or most states would capitulate very quickly. We have all been looking at the politics of King v. Burwell backwards,” he wrote.
With a little luck we won’t have to find out the answer.
