http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/robert-schlesinger/2014/12/03/conservatives-take-aim-at-boehners-plan-to-avoid-a-shutdown-again
Conservatives Take Aim at Boehner’s Plan to Avoid a Shutdown. Again. - US News
House Republican leaders are proposing a show vote on a major showdown with President Barack Obama, but conservatives are threatening to derail the plan because, well, symbolism won’t cut it for them.
Is it this week’s appropriations two-step plan aimed at avoiding a government shutdown while taking a shot at Obama’s controversial immigration policy? Sure. But it also describes last year’s two-step plan aimed at avoiding a government shutdown while taking a shot at Obama’s controversial health care policy. How’d that turn out?
Here in 2014, House Speaker John Boehner has laid out a plan whereby his chamber will pass a bill eliminating Obama’s authority to act unilaterally on immigration and will also pass a bill that funds the government – excepting the Department of Homeland Security – through the rest of the fiscal year (which concludes at the end of September). The former bill will never see the light of day in the Senate but the latter would avoid a full shutdown now (the government will shutter in eight days if nothing is passed) and then the Homeland Security funding would run out in the spring, setting up a possible partial shutdown fight then over the immigration plan. Even Democrats have signaled a willingness to go along. Sounds good right?
[SEE: Political Cartoons on Congress]
Maybe not – House GOP leaders “encountered unexpected ‘headwinds’” as they talked up the plan, according to Politico’s Jake Sherman and John Bresnahan.
They report:
The opposition from within House GOP ranks is easy to explain: Conservatives want to put up a tougher fight with Obama over his executive order ending the deportation threat for millions of undocumented immigrants.
Conservatives fear that the Senate will ignore a pending House GOP bill — introduced by Rep. Ted Yoho (R-Fla.) — that says Obama cannot exempt groups of people from deportation, which would allow his executive order to stand unchallenged. Boehner and other party leaders had hoped to use the Yoho bill to mollify conservatives, while quickly passing a funding bill to take a shutdown out of the equation, while keeping a tight leash on DHS funding. But many conservatives think a three-month extension of funding for the Department of Homeland Security is too long. There are a good number of Republican hard-liners who want to fight in the early days of their new majority.
Because if there’s one thing that Americans will want to see right away in the new Congress it’s high-stakes showdowns, brinksmanship and the resulting gridlock (not). The people running the House have it right on one score, per the same Politico piece: “GOP leadership thinks the far-right is living in a dream world.”
[MORE: Editorial Cartoons on the Republican Party]
But it raises the question of which world GOP leadership is living in because, as I noted at the top, we’ve been through this before. Anyone remember “Plan B”? Or more specifically do House leaders remember how this exact strategy worked in 2013? Last year as a government shutdown loomed, Boehner tried pretty much the same thing: A symbolic vote to appease the hard right (on this occasion regarding Obamacare) while trying to keep the government open. How’d that play?
Here’s how Politico’s Bresnahan, Manu Raju, Sherman and Carrie Budoff Brown put it while surveying the wreckage last October:
[Boehner] suggested passing a budget bill that completely funded the Affordable Care Act. A resolution would be passed alongside that defunded the law, but it could’ve been stripped out by the Senate and sent to Obama’s desk.
The proposal was dubbed the “Cantor plan,” after House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-Va.), who came up with the idea.
...
But that’s where Boehner miscalculated: he assumed House Republicans only wanted a show vote. Instead, they wanted so much more, determined to nullify the health care law and use a government shutdown and threat of a debt-limit default to get there.
Boehner’s rank-and-file were being egged on Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), a populist freshman who was quickly gaining followers in the House as quickly as he was alienating his fellow Republicans senators.
Ah yes, Ted Cruz, he’s all that’s missing to complete the rerun picture. Where is he? “Sen. Ted Cruz (R. Texas) Wednesday joined forces with House conservatives to fight GOP leaders’ proposal to avoid a government shutdown while opposing President Barack Obama’s immigration initiative,” the Wall Street Journal’s Janet Hook reported this morning. Hail, the gang’s all here!
So where do we go from here? Last year’s iteration of this ended up with a shutdown. I’m guessing this year’s will resolve better, but can’t we get a new storyline for this show?

