http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/robert-schlesinger/2014/10/09/south-dakota-and-kansas-complicate-gop-push-for-senate
It's Complicated
The calculus for control of the U.S. Senate keeps becoming more and more complicated. The latest example comes from South Dakota of all places, where Democrats suddenly seem to hope that they can hold onto the seat that retiring Democratic Sen. Tim Johnson is vacating.
Bloomberg reported yesterday that the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee is preparing to dump $1 million into the contest, which has long been universally written off as a slam-dunk GOP pickup. According to Bloomberg, the committee has conducted four polls showing a tight race, and then yesterday a Survey USA poll showed an extremely tight race, with former Gov. Mike Rounds with 35 percent, narrowly ahead of former GOP Sen. Larry Pressler, who is running as an independent, and Democrat Rick Weiland at 28 percent. Rounds had been considered the prohibitive favorite for the seat, and while other polls had shown him deeply weak and Pressler gaining, the Survey USA poll is for now an outlier – other public polls had Pressler comfortably in line to take a plurality of the vote.
[GALLERY: Cartoons on the 2014 Congressional Elections]
So what’s going on here? I wrote last month about the half-dozen x-factors that could swing the elections. This is an example of at least one and probably two of them.
First, this could be the year of the independent candidate. The Democrats cleared the field for independent Greg Orman in Kansas, who is neck-and-neck with incumbent GOP Sen. Pat Roberts; the Democrats' gubernatorial candidate in Alaska joined a fusion ticket with the independent candidate there, and in other Senate races Libertarians are threatening to cripple GOP candidates. Orman has not said with which party he'll side if elected, and he could conceivably be the deciding vote as to who gets to run the upper chamber; and while Pressler was a three-term GOP senator – a fact that’s helping buoy him, according to a GOP strategist, who says, “There’s a swath of older Republican voters in South Dakota who mistakenly believe Larry Pressler is a Republican and Rounds has refused to educate them on that fact.” – he too is refusing to say which side he would join if elected. If both win, and if they get independent Maine Sen. Angus King to join them as majority-deciders, the circus would be fascinating.
[MORE: Cartoons about Congress]
The question is how real is the Pressler bubble and Rounds deflation? Rounds has been hampered by a visa scandal, according to press reports, and has apparently run a poor campaign. National Republicans have been urging him to rethink his strategy “for some time now,” says the GOP strategist, noting that the former governor has “refused to run negative ads and in that vacuum he’s allowed his opponents to creep up in the polls.”
So in a sense this is likely a twofer for Democrats: On the one hand, they’re throwing a Hail Mary pass – $1 million goes a long way in a cheap media state like South Dakota – a long-shot play that could pay off if everything breaks right. One of the other x-factors I identified was the Democrats’ cash advantage, and while $1 million isn’t chump change, they’re well enough positioned that they can try this.
[GALLERY: Cartoons on the Economy]
On the other hand, the move forces a reaction from both the media – a boomlet of “Is South Dakota in Play?” stories like this one – and from the GOP, which may well feel compelled to move resources there if the race does tighten any more. Says another Republican strategist, “Democrats are trying to shake up the current small lead that Republicans have in a number of battleground states. This move is designed to try and distract the narrative that Republicans are more likely to win the Senate back if the election was held today.”
So watch first whether Rounds goes negative and second whether the National Republican Senatorial Committee counters the Democrats with a cash bomb of its own. And get another scorecard, as the Pressler factor could make figuring out who’s going to run the Senate next year even more complicated.
