http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/robert-schlesinger/2014/07/07/mlb-should-honor-babe-ruths-100th-anniversary
Babe Ruth's Day Should Come Again
One hundred years ago this week – on July 11, 1914 to be precise – a 19-year old rookie made his major league debut for the Boston Red Sox, pitching seven strong innings for the win over the Cleveland Indians in front of a scant Fenway Park crowd. “He has natural delivery, great command and a curve ball that is tough for opposing hitters,” the Boston Globe’s T.H. Murname wrote in the next day’s edition. “However, there’s still room for improvement for him but he will undoubtedly progress with the help of Manager Bill Carrigan.”
This was an understatement: The pitcher’s name was George Herman “Babe” Ruth. But you wouldn’t know that centennial is approaching, as Major League Baseball is whiffing on a big opportunity to honor its own history and, oh yeah, market itself.
Ruth is, of course, remembered as one of the greatest hitters of all time, but in his early years with the Red Sox, when they were busy winning three World Series titles before they traded the Bambino for $100,000 and 85 years of futility, he was a pitcher and a dominant one. As Sports Illustrated’s Cliff Corcoran has pointed out, “among AL lefties with at least 1,000 IP in the decade, Ruth had the lowest ERA (2.19) and highest winning percentage (.659) while ranking fourth in wins, tied for fourth in shutouts and ninth in strikeouts.” From 1915 to 1917, Ruth won 65 games, which was more than any other left-handed pitcher in the major leagues.
[DATA MINE: Covering Ground at the FIFA World Cup]
But while pitching left him relatively few opportunities to hit, when he did he was prodigious. Ruth had tied for the league lead in home runs in 1918 with 11, while splitting time between the pitcher’s mound, first base and the outfield. (Red Sox manager Ed Barrow had initially resisted the idea of having Ruth hit more, according to ESPN, saying he would be “investigated if he moved the best left-handed pitcher in the game to the outfield.”) In 1919 he set the league record by smashing 29 homers, two more than the previous record of 27, set 35 years earlier when the Chicago White Stockings’ Ned Williamson had played in a park where the fences stood less than 196 feet from home plate. The Bleacher Report’s Jim Flannery put it in perspective:
Then Red Sox owner Harry Frazee needed some cash and sold Ruth to the Yankees for $100,000 and a $300,000 loan. (Whether that money was used to finance the Broadway play musical “No, No Nanette” remains in dispute.) And while the rest, as they say, is history, we can forget how epic his 1920s barrage was or how dominant an all-around hitter – not just home run hitter – the Sultan of Swat was. He put up video game numbers before anyone could even conceive of video games.
[GALLERY: Cartoons on the Economy]
He belted 54 round-trippers in 1920, his first year in pinstripes – a figure that surpassed the team totals of all but one other squad in baseball, the Philadelphia Athletics. (In 1927 he would out-homer every team in the league and, note to Sox fans, he personally out-homered his old team in 10 of his first 12 years as a Yankee.) He set the record again in 1921 by clubbing an unheard of 59 dingers. And he was doing these things while hitting .376 in his first year as a Yankee and .378 in his second. This was dominance.
For the modern baseball stat-heads, consider that, per SI’s Corcoran, Ruth “led the American League, pitchers included, in wins above replacement (Baseball-Reference.com version) 10 times, in OPS+ 12 times, in OPS 13 times and in two of the three Triple Crown categories seven times.” Ruth is in fact the all-time Baseball-Reference.com leader in wins above replacement (the increase in wins a team experiences because it had a specific player rather than a pedestrian replacement), with 183.6; by comparison Cy Young is a distant second with 168.4.
But Babe Ruth’s significance to Major League Baseball was about more than his status as one of the handful of greatest players ever to play the game. He’s a transcendent figure in the sport, and a genuine U.S. icon, not only because of his feats but because of what they signified.
For one thing, the Babe’s barrage remade how baseball was played. When Ruth hit his record 29 homers in 1919, the next most prodigious player, per ESPN, was Gavvy Cravath of the Philadelphia Phillies, with 12; when the Babe bashed 54 four-baggers, the runner-up was the St. Louis Browns’ George Sisler, who clubbed 19.
[READ: Signed Lou Gehrig Glove Could Sell for $200K]
About this time, owners twigged to the power of power – the fans dug the long ball. “People just thought that they had never seen anything like that,” says Mike Gibbons, the executive director of the Babe Ruth Birthplace and Museum in Baltimore. So the lords of baseball acted like any good businessmen would: They gave the fans more of what they wanted. “Eager to cash in on the popularity of [Ruth’s] power hitting, the owners created the lively ball and outlawed the spitball and other trick pitches in 1921,” Nick Acocella wrote on ESPN. “As a result, league batting averages jumped 35 points, and runs scored increased from about 9,000 a year in the 1910s to almost 12,000 in the 1920s.” By 1921, major league hitters had launched twice as many home runs as two years previously. (Ruth’s 59, per Flannery, was still 6 percent of the league total, by the way.) The modern baseball game had been born.
And it couldn’t have arrived at a more important time. Baseball was enduring a potentially crippling scandal in the form of the revelation that members of the Chicago White Sox had conspired to throw the 1919 World Series. As Baseball-Reference.com has noted, baseball had in the first two decades of the century achieved a new level of respect and affection:
(Interesting what-if side note: When Frazee was contemplating trading Ruth, he got two offers according to ESPN: The Yankees’ $100,000-and-loan bid, as well as a proposal from the White Sox consisting of $60,000 and “Shoeless” Joe Jackson, who would shortly be suspended for life for his role in fixing the Series.)
[READ: Dan Snyder Has to Make the Right Call]
Ruth stepped in at the right moment, overshadowing the game’s scandal with his personality and his performance. He was so popular that the Yankees built a cathedral-like new stadium (with a short right field suited to his lefty power swing). “He wasn't a baseball player,” Hall of Fame broadcaster Ernie Harwell told ESPN. “He was a worldwide celebrity, an international star, the likes of which baseball has never seen since.” He was, as Gibbons says, “a rock star.”
Remaking the sport and giving it a brash and charismatic new personality at this time of crisis, Ruth is widely credited with having saved the game. Hell, my kids have a book saying as much. The point isn’t that children’s books are the final word on cultural history, but ask yourself: Is there any other athlete, dead or alive, who could be the iconic subject of children’s book a century after their debut? I can think of one: Jackie Robinson.
Ruth and Robinson, for different reasons, occupy a place unparalleled in sports in terms of being enduring, transcending figures. Ruth is the only athlete I can think of whose name has entered the lexicon as an adjective – players in all kinds of sports are now celebrated when they turn in a “ Ruthian” performance.
So why are the Yankees letting the centennial of their greatest star’s debut pass without notice? Why are the Red Sox, for whom he debuted and starred, passing on this opportunity to finally make amends with the Bambino’s ghost? Why are the Orioles, for whom Ruth played as a minor leaguer and whose ballpark, which stands a short walk from his birthplace, has a statue of the great man, passing on an opportunity to grab a piece of a rival’s legend?
[READ: Coulter's Soccer Rant Says a Lot About Conservatives]
Forget the individual teams – why is Major League Baseball missing this opportunity? (A league spokesman emails: “We will acknowledge with editorial and social content as we normally do with significant historic milestones"; he adds that the MLB Network will be airing a remembrance on the anniversary.) This sports like no other venerates its own history. Why is it failing to do so now? (It also venerates above all other things the almighty dollar, so why hasn’t it made the 2014 season a Babe Ruth marketing spectacle?)
The league has retired Jackie Robinson’s 42, except for the one day every year that every ballplayer wears it in honor of the man who broke baseball’s color barrier. It’s a fitting tribute to a towering figure. And there is no question that Robinson’s significance to the game, and more importantly to the country, sets him apart. But Babe Ruth remade the game, saved it and transcended it. He was the sport’s greatest player and remains a broader cultural icon. If the lords of baseball had any sense, they would declare July 11 to be Babe Ruth day in the league and have every player wear number three, or at least wear an arm-patch with his number. (They shouldn’t retire it league-wide; they should leave that distinction to Robinson.) Or dedicate the All-Star Game (on July 15) to the Babe.
The man saved the sport; the least it can do is honor his memory.
