http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2015/03/04/hillary-clinton-ignores-e-mail-firestorm-at-emilys-list-event
Hillary Clinton Ignores E-mail Firestorm at Emily's List Event - US News
Hillary Clinton spoke for 30 minutes before an admiring crowd Tuesday night without mentioning the controversy surrounding her sole use of a personal e-mail address during her tenure as Secretary of State.
In her first public appearance since The New York Times revealed Clinton’s private electronic communication method at the State Department, the almost certain 2016 Democratic candidate for president appeared unfazed by the media firestorm.
[READ: EMILY’s List Pushes for 'Madame POTUS’ Candidates Beyond Clinton]
The New York Times, legal experts and Republicans have suggested Clinton may have broken the law by not using a government e-mail account during her time in office. Congressional Republicans have gone as far to call for hearings about the e-mails and whether the decision to conduct communication on a private account endangered national security.
But Clinton ignored the swirling strife and instead spoke to the 30th anniversary gala for EMILY’s List about the power of electing women to higher office. She also flirted about the potential of her own likely campaign.
“I suppose, isn’t it fair to say, “Don’t you someday want to see a woman president?,’” she said to raucous cheers and applause that filled the ballroom and lingered for nearly 30 seconds.
Clinton’s spokesman has insisted that the former Secretary of State complied with the intent of the law. But only a portion of Clinton’s e-mails have been turned over to the State Department for archival purposes and it’s not clear how many Clinton’s advisers have decided to withhold.
See Photos
The storyline reinforces some of the biggest concerns about Clinton as a candidate and politician: that she lacks transparency and is willing to skirt ethical lines to protect herself.
But on Tuesday night, the thousands of attendees supporting EMILY’s List -- the largest backer of female Democrats supporting abortion rights -- were more focused on what lay ahead for Clinton.
Over a dinner of seared Alaskan halibut, roasted fingerling potatoes and grilled jumbo asparagus, speakers made countless references to electing the first female president, with a wink and a nod to Clinton, who was seated at a table near the front of the immense ballroom.
“Well, you heard us,” said Ellen Malcolm, the founder of EMILY’s List, glancing down at Clinton in the audience. Malcolm promised the 3 million-member group’s unwavering support if Clinton decided to pursue another White House bid.
“When she runs, when she wins,” uttered Democratic House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, referring to Clinton.
Stephanie Schriock, the group’s current president, made an indirect reference to the e-mail flare-up by acknowledging Clinton’s second attempt at cracking the ultimate glass ceiling would again face fierce, unrelenting opposition.
“Nobody makes history without a fight,” said Schriock. “And nobody knows that better than the women we’re honoring tonight.”
EMILY’s List presented Clinton with its “We Are Emily” award, but the ceremony didn’t go without a hitch. Clinton’s first name was spelled wrong in an advertisement inside the glossy program. And a video filled with testimonials from women and children about Clinton didn’t match the audio. It had to be restarted.
Clinton’s performance didn’t overwhelm the room either. There were many points in which several minutes passed without an applause line. Perhaps that’s because it was standard fare. She talked about the continuing plight of women who unfairly make less than their male counterparts. She spoke about the importance of the right of union workers to organize. She referenced the growing wage gap between CEOs and their workers, even at one point giving a shout-out to Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass, for “working to hold Wall Street accountable.”
The big question coming into the evening was whether Clinton felt the need to address the e-mail issue, a story that will continue to dominate the news for at least the next week. She did not. She kept to the script and basked in the applause.
If any audience was prepared to give Clinton a pass on this, it was this one.
Democratic senators who attended the EMILY’s List gala appeared uncomfortable addressing the controversy but largely relied on past precedent to defend Clinton.
Former Secretary of State Colin Powell also used a private e-mail address to communicate with colleagues during his tenure in President George W. Bush’s administration.
“She’s done the same type of process that Colin Powell and I think every other Secretary of State has done,” said Sen. Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich. “So I guess you’d have to go indict all of them.”
But as to the question of whether Clinton should release more e-mails to the government, Clinton’s former Senate colleagues were flummoxed.
“I read what was in the paper today and so I couldn’t evaluate that. But I know it sounds to me like other people have had similar e-mail accounts,” Sen. Amy Klobuchar, D-Minn., told U.S. News.
“I have no idea what the issue is,” Sen. Patty Murray, D-Wash., said in a separate brief interview. “I’m confident she’ll answer that.”
Even though the revelation about the personal e-mail use was uncovered by The New York Times and not a partisan opponent, Stabenow described the story as an inevitable part of the playbook that will be hurled at Clinton.
“This is part of what will be the onslaught of attacks that are just getting started. It’ll be attack, attack, attack,” said Stabenow. “I think she’s doing just fine.”
