http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2014/12/22/chris-christie-the-biggest-loser-after-jeb-bushs-decision
Chris Christie: The Biggest Loser After Jeb Bush's Decision - US News
The biggest GOP loser following Jeb Bush's decision to seriously explore a presidential campaign is New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie.
[Rand Paul's Rapid Response]
A year ago, the former Florida governor who carries a dynastic name in American politics appeared to lack the juice for a national bid. Christie, meanwhile, was coming off a smashing re-election victory in a deep-blue state and primed to embark on a new role as chairman of the Republican Governors Association.
Now, as GOP emissaries have grown anxious about a contest against Democrat Hillary Clinton, they are gravitating toward Bush as their best foil.
Not only does he carry immediate respect across party lines, but Bush is a former chief executive from a battleground state who has spoken about running a joyful, inclusive campaign. Christie, on the other hand, has built a reputation as a brash, in-your-face figure who claims to care less about perception than maintaining his so-called truth-telling image. The bridge scandal that engulfed much of his year didn't prove to be disqualifying, but it did give many in his party pause about his long-term viability.
Quite simply, to the cautious GOP investor's eye, Christie is a riskier proposition than Bush.
For this reason, The Run 2016 has moved Bush up to the No. 2 slot on The Chase over Christie. The Chase rankings are a list of the major aspirants most likely to attain the major parties' presidential nominations.
[ALSO: Republicans Look Favorably on Governors for 2016]
Bush wasn't even in the top tier when the year began, indicating how dramatically he has warmed up to a run in recent months.
Whereas Christie could have been the clear establishment favorite without Bush in the race, he now faces a two-pronged fight for the nomination.
"Christie’s now got a fight on both sides. He’s got to fight off Bush, and fight off the guys on the right," says Jamie Burnett, a New Hampshire-based GOP strategist. “I think [Jeb's] going to steal a lot of support from Christie. I think Christie loses the most from this.”
Christie's sheer personality could still make him a more compelling retail candidate than Bush, who hasn't run a race in more than a decade. But for those center-right Republicans who were queasy about Christie out of the gate, Bush hands them an easy alternative.
