http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/11/07/obama-wins-world-leader-react-_n_2087796.html
Obama Wins: World Leader Reactions To U.S. President's Reelection
From Berlin to Beijing, world leaders scrambled to congratulate Barack Obama on his decisive win in the 2012 race to the White House.
While Obama’s reelection drew effusive statements of praise and support from his European counterparts, it met a far less enthusiastic response in the Middle East, which is reeling from longrunning crises that present the greatest foreign policy challenge to Obama in his second term.
Check out some of the reactions of world leaders in the slideshow below.
"Overall the Kremlin welcomes the news of Barack Obama's victory in the elections," Putin's spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, told Interfax news agency."We express hope that the positive beginnings in bilateral relations and in international cooperation between Russian and the United States, in the interest of international security, will develop and improve." Caption: Russian President Vladimir Putin meets with the leader of Georgia's breakaway province of South Ossetia Leonid Tibilov, not seen, in the Novo-Ogaryovo residence outside Moscow, Wednesday, Oct. 24, 2012. (AP Photo/RIA-Novosti, Alexei Nikolsky, Presidential Press Service)
China will "look to the future and make continuous efforts for fresh and greater progress in the building of the China-US cooperative partnership," foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters. Caption: In this Sept. 8, 2012 file photo, Chinese President Hu Jintao waves as he arrives for the Leaders Meeting at the APEC summit in Vladivostok, Russia. (AP Photo/Ivan Sekretarev, File)
"The president hopes that with President Obama's re-election relations between Afghanistan and the United States, based on bilateral interests, are further expanded," Afghan spokesman Aimal Faizi told AFP. Caption: Afghan President Hamid Karzai arrives to review the guard of honor, during the first day of Eid Al Adha celebrations at the palace in Kabul, Afghanistan, Friday, Oct 26, 2012. (AP Photo/Anja Niedringhaus)
"The President expressed the hope that the relationship between Pakistan and the US would continue to prosper during President Obama's new term in office," a statement from Zardari's office said according to NDTV. Caption: Asif Ali Zardari, President of Pakistan, addresses the 67th session of the United Nations General Assembly with a photo of Pakistan's late Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto next to him at U.N. headquarters Tuesday, Sept. 25, 2012. (AP Photo/Frank Franklin II)
"I will continue to work with President Obama to ensure the vital security interests of Israel and the United States," read a statement by the Israeli Premier as reported by the Daily Beast. Caption: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu attends a weekly cabinet meeting in Jerusalem Sunday, Nov. 4, 2012. (AP Photo/Gali Tibbon, Pool)
"There are so many things that we need to do: We need to kickstart the world economy and I want to see an EU-US trade deal," Cameron said. Caption: British Prime Minister David Cameron, during a joint press conference with Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono and Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf , following a UN High Level panel meeting at 10 Downing Street, in central London, Thursday, Nov. 1, 2012. (AP Photo Leon Neal, Pool)
"I look forward to continuing all this cooperation so both our countries can continue to stand side-by-side to contend with the important foreign policy and economic challenges that we face as friends and allies," AFP quoted her as saying. Caption: German Chancellor Angela Merkel smiles during a press conference after an energy summit at the chancellery in Berlin, Germany, Friday, Nov. 2, 2012. (AP Photo/Michael Sohn)
“Given the recently deteriorating situation in Tibet, of which the tragic series of self-immolations is a stark symptom, I hope your administration will be able to take further steps to encourage a mutually acceptable solution,” FirstPost quoted him as saying. Caption: Tibet's spiritual leader Dalai Lama gestures as he answers questions during a press conference in Yokohama, suburban Tokyo, on November 5, 2012. (TORU YAMANAKA/AFP/Getty Images)
"His re-election is an encouraging signal for the future of the United States, of the world and of ours...Americans have chosen a more juste and tolerant America." Caption: Belgium's Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo addresses the media on the announced closure of the Belgian Ford factory, in his office in Brussels on Wednesday Oct. 24, 2012. (AP Photo/Geert Vanden Wijngaert)
"I am convinced that during the new mandate we will once again reinforce our partnership to favour the return of economic growth in our countries, to fight unemployment and to find solutions to crises that threaten us, especially in the Middle East," Ansamed quoted the French President as saying. Caption: French President Francois Hollande speaks during a press a conference with Lebanese President Michel Suleiman, unseen, at the Presidential Palace in Baabda, east of Beirut, Lebanon, Sunday, Nov. 4, 2012. (AP Photo/Bilal Hussein)
"Over the last four years, the president and I have worked on several important bilateral initiatives to generate jobs and growth in both our countries. This includes the Beyond the Border Action Plan, which will speed up trade and travel across our borders while also enhancing security," read a statement. Caption: Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper attends the World Economic Forum meeting in Gurgaon, outskirts of New Delhi, India, Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2012. (AP Photo/ Manish Swarup)
"We listened to the moderate speech by Obama in the wake of his first presidential victory, but his policy did not fit into this discourse and in front of him now is an opportunity to apply what he had promised the people of the region away from the pressures of the Israeli lobby," said Hamas figure Taher al-Nunu. Caption: Gaza's Hamas Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh greets worshipers during a prayer on the first day of Eid al-Adha in central Gaza Strip, Friday, Oct. 26, 2012. (AP Photo/Hatem Moussa)
“I am delighted to confirm that we share the same vision as you in especially strengthening the economic and trade dimensions of our relations in the next term,” Hurriyetdaily quoted him as saying. Caption: Turkish President Abdullah Gul inspect a honour guard during a ceremony prior to a meeting with Prince Albert II of Monaco at the Cankaya Palace in Ankara, on November 6, 2012. (ADEM ALTAN/AFP/Getty Images)
"Obama must take action to dry out the swamp that is the Israeli occupation, because this is the key to democracy... Obama must take action to dry out the swamp that is the Israeli occupation, because this is the key to democracy," PLO negotiator Saeb Erekat said according to Ynetnews. Caption: In this Oct. 2, 2011 file photo chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat, talks during a press conference with Arab League Secretary General Nabil al-Arabi, not pictured, at the Arab League headquarters in Cairo, Egypt. (AP Photo/Amr Nabil, File)
"We value our relations with the United States and look forward to strengthening bilateral cooperation in the years to come... South Africa is confident that the United States will continue to play a positive role in this regard," Zuma said according to Mail & Guardian. Caption: Jacob Zuma, President of South Africa attends a conference Education First at the U.N. Wednesday Sept. 26, 2012. He is at the U.N. for the 67th session of the General Assembly. (AP Photo/David Karp)
"Kenya, as always is proud of our association with you ....We look forward to the deepening of relations between our two countries during your second term in office," the Mail & Guardian quoted Kibaki as saying. Caption: The President of Kenya Mwai Kibaki, leaves a meeting by the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) during the second day of the 15th African Union Summit in Kampala, Uganda on July 26, 2010. (MARC HOFER/AFP/Getty Images)
"The Philippines looks forward to deepening the cooperation between the Philippines and the United States in Mr. Obama’s second term."
"I am going to call him to congratulate him," said the Brazilian president while making a heart shape with her hands, reported Folha de S.Paulo Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff delivers a speech during the opening ceremony of the 15th International Anti-Corruption Conference (IACC) in Brasilia, Brazil, on November 7, 2012. The conference will offer innovative perspectives aiming to bring change into 5 key areas: ending impunity, clean climate governance, preventing illicit financial flows, political transitions leading to stable and transparent governments, and clean sports. AFP PHOTO / Evaristo SA (Photo credit should read EVARISTO SA/AFP/Getty Images)
Cristina Fernández de Kirchner sent a letter congratulating the President in which she wrote that "the Argentinian people and their president will always be united to the US in the construction of a fairer world." Caption: Cristina Fernández, President of the Argentina, addresses the 67th UN General Assembly on September 25, 2012 in New York City. The annual event gathers more than 100 heads of state and government for high level meetings on nuclear safety, regional conflicts, health and nutrition and environment issues. (Photo by John Moore/Getty Images)
“First of all, let me congratulate him, I am very happy about the relationship we had during his first term, during which we were able to welcome them in Chile," she said as reported by Noticias. Caption: Chile's First Lady Cecilia Morel speaks during a Mass marking the one year anniversary of the rescue of 33 miners from the collapsed San Jose mine in Copiapo, Chile, Thursday Oct. 13, 2011. (AP Photo/Alex Fuentes)
Felipe Calderon expressed his conviction that "the governments of both countries will keep widening and deepening our cooperation and coordination to reach prosperity, security and competitivity in Mexico and the United States." Caption: Mexican President Felipe Calderon speaks during a press conference at Los Pinos official residence in Mexico City, on October 10, 2012. Calderon referred to the new candidate to the Mexican Supreme Court. AFP PHOTO/PEDRO PARDO.
The Pope insured the President "his prayers to God to assist him in his high responsibilities facing his country and the international community so the ideals of freedom and justice that have been the guiding principles of the United States will keep on illuminating the path of the nation." Caption: Pope Benedict XVI waves during his weekly general audience on November 7, 2012 at St Peter's square at the Vatican. AFP PHOTO / ALBERTO PIZZOLI
Mario Monti congratulated the President emphasizing the fact he is "very attentive to the requirements of his own country but who also understands Europe, he is very pleasant to work with." Caption: Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti speaks during a press conference with Afghan President Hamid Karzai (unseen) in Kabul on November 4, 2012. Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti made a surprise visit to Afghanistan to see Italian troops and hold talks with President Hamid Karzai, the Ansa news agency reported. AFP PHOTO/ JAWAD JALALI
President Mariano Rajoy expressed "his most sincere congratulations" to the President Obama and complimented the "excellent dialogue" between the two countries. Caption: Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy gives a press conference with his Italian counterpart Mario Monti after a Spain-Italy summit at the Moncloa Palace in Madrid on October 29, 2012. AFP PHOTO/ JAVIER SORIANO.
