http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/data-mine/2015/01/06/the-democratic-effects-of-tumbling-oil-prices
The Democratic Effects of Tumbling Oil Prices
Oil prices fell to their lowest level in more than five years this week as worldwide production continues to outpace demand. In the U.S., tumbling oil prices are a net positive for growth despite a possible short-term drag on already-low inflation. While future prices are impossible to predict, it’s likely they’ll continue their decline this year and provide a further tailwind for U.S. households.
[READ: U.S. Oil Reserves Hit 38-Year High]
The price for benchmark U.S. oil – known as West Texas Intermediate crude – fell below $50 a barrel for the first time since April 2009 on Monday while Brent, the global benchmark, fell below $55 for the first time since May 2009. The prices of West Texas Intermediate crude and Brent have fallen more than 50 percent over the last six months.
Eric Green, head of U.S. Rates and Economic Research at TD Securities, says tumbling oil prices make the recovery “more democratic.”
"What oil prices will do basically is take some of the strength out of the oil-producing states and disperse it more broadly across the oil consuming states,” Green says. “When you just look at the energy issue in isolation … what you have is a net positive in terms of lower energy prices because we are net importers of oil, it's priced in dollars and we love to buy stuff.”
Oil-producing states like Texas and North Dakota have experienced “supercharged job growth,” Green says, and according to the Labor Department, the two states had the biggest percentage increases in employment over the past year.
Green says he has a “strong suspicion” the price for a gallon of West Texas Intermediate will dip to $40 in 2015, but it won’t stay that low for long. Cheaper oil is most tangible for consumers in lower prices at the gas pump, which have translated to Americans feeling the most confident in the economy in seven years.
[ALSO: Bargain-Basement Oil May Fuel Unrest Abroad]
Lower gas prices are a boost to consumer spending – and are “much more democratic, even more so than housing and stocks because everybody benefits,” Green says. Spending already helped propel U.S. economic growth in the third quarter to its fastest pace in 11 years.
The national average price of a gallon of unleaded gas has been falling for more than 100 days and is now $2.19 a gallon, according to AAA. This has resulted in an average savings of $115 for households in 2014, or a total of $14 billion, and this year Americans could save an additional $50 to $75 billion, AAA says.
“No one knows how far oil will drop and for how long it will remain low. Predicting gas prices for 2015 has been a crapshoot given the fact there are so many uncertainties on the market,” says Michael Green, public relations manager at AAA. “The most reasonable thing we can say at this point is that the national average should remain less expensive than $3 per gallon … unless there are any surprising geopolitical events that send crude oil prices significantly higher.”

