http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/Ken-Walshs-Washington/2014/10/14/obama-ratchets-up-response-to-ebola
Obama Ratchets Up Response to Ebola
President Barack Obama and key U.S. officials are ratcheting up their efforts to show how seriously they take the possibility of a deadly Ebola epidemic in the United States.
White House officials announced that Obama received an update from health and national security advisers Monday on the latest developments regarding the spread of Ebola in Texas. The president also spoke with United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and with French President Francois Hollande about the need for other nations to work with the United States to stop Ebola in West Africa.
[MORE: Ebola Becoming Political Issue]
All this is in contrast to Obama's initial public statements when he said there was no need for alarm, at least in assessing the potential for Ebola to spread at home. "The likelihood of an epidemic here in the United States is extraordinarily small," Obama said last week, "but there's a humanitarian crisis that's happening right now in West Africa, where children...are dying on the streets, alone."
Now he is acting with more urgency. He appears to realize that if the government can't control the spread of the disease, the failure will damage the argument by Obama and fellow Democrats that the federal government can be effective and responsive, and should play more of a role in national life.
Ebola has killed more than 4,000 people in West Africa, and U.S. efforts to fight the disease both there and in the United States are coming under fire as inadequate. Among those warning that Obama and his administration aren't doing enough to fight the disease are Sens. Ted Cruz of Texas and Rand Paul of Kentucky and Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana. All three are possible 2016 Republican presidential candidates. GOP candidates at the congressional level are echoing these concerns in the runup to the Nov. 4 midterm elections.
See Photos
Adding urgency to the issue was the death last week of Liberian Thomas Duncan in Dallas, where he was visiting his family, and news that a nurse who treated Duncan has been infected with the disease despite wearing protective clothing.
Thomas Frieden, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, who had expressed optimism about existing measures to control the disease, changed his tone. "We have to rethink how we address Ebola control because even a single infection is unacceptable," Frieden said Monday.
The government has announced plans to accelerate screening of travelers from West Africa, where Ebola is most prevalent, at five U.S. airports--New York's Kennedy Airport, Chicago's O'Hare, Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson, Newark Liberty, and Washington Dulles The extra procedures will include asking travelers whether they have been exposed to anyone who has contracted Ebola and taking travelers' temperatures to determine if they are running a fever, a sign of the virus. "It will give us the ability to isolate, evaluate and monitor travelers as needed," Obama said. "And we'll be able to collect any contact information that's necessary." Obama has also ordered 4,000 U.S. troops to Africa to fight the disease.
