http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2014/12/11/cia-torture-report-is-little-more-than-a-partisan-smear-tactic
So Many Shades of Disingenuous
The release of the U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee’s report about the treatment of U.S. detainees captured in the war on terror was illuminating – illuminating in its illustration of the lengths to which certain partisans will go in their continuing efforts to get at former President George W. Bush and the Republicans.
The shock and awe expressed by those releasing the report is only exceeded by their duplicity. As has been reported time and again, senior members of the committee involved in its production were themselves briefed time and again between 2001 and 2007 on the techniques being used when questioning certain detainees with links to al-Qaida.
[SEE: Political Cartoons on Congress]
It took a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit to bring that all out late in the decade since, by that time, the wars in both Afghanistan and Iraq had grown sufficiently unpopular that most every Democrat who had voted to authorize (and some Republicans) was running away from their record while trying to craft a new narrative.
The report is a one-sided product of partisans seeking to blacken further the reputations of those in charge of prosecuting the war. Committee Republicans issued their own 100-page rebuttal that challenged many of the assertions the Democrats who wrote the report made and dismissed it as “a sloppy, partisan effort that got the facts wrong,” according to the New York Times. Rather than being a document to guide the nation for the ages, the report appears to have been written in the way many American students write term papers: Develop the conclusion first, and then find facts that fit the thesis and present them in detail.
Some of the same people talking up this latest document as proof they were right about the mistreatment of detainees are some of the same people who, despite recent reports even in the New York Times and other publications to the contrary, still refuse to acknowledge that former Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein was in possession of large numbers of weapons of mass destruction stashed at sites around Iraq just as Bush and members of his war cabinet claimed.
[READ: Views You Can Use: Necessary or Needless?]
The politicians on both sides of the aisle making hay over the allegations made by the committee majority in its report are being disingenuous. Today they may claim the tactics employed are inhuman, outrageous, un-American and just about any other rhetorical epithet they can think. Where were they, however, when all this was going on, when the outrage might have made a difference? They were in a secure room on Capitol Hill (or somewhere else in the Washington area) being briefed by the CIA about what it was doing and how it was getting its information.
The techniques utilized included such shocking and inhuman acts as "attention grasps," nudity, stress positions, sleep deprivation, "wall standing," waterboarding, cramped confinement and the “facial slap/insult slap,” none of which seems as dangerous or threatening or torturous as, say, hiding improvised explosive devices on the side of the road and detonating them as U.S. troops passed by.
The list of what was done, taken from a May 2005 Justice Department memo to the CIA and reported on by The Associated Press also does not include the use of “rape rooms,” beheadings, chemical weapons and other techniques no one disputes Saddam used on his own people before he was driven from power. From the sounds of it Batman and Robin endured worse at the hands of The Joker, Mr. Freeze, The Penguin, Catwoman and other supervillains in the 1960s TV show than the detainees in U.S. custody.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on Torture and the CIA's Enhanced Interrogation Techniques]
There are others, in addition to the Republicans on the committee, who have taken issue with the report. Some even have the apparent audacity to defend the program despite the damming condemnations coming from the likes of the committee’s chairwoman, California Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein. Six of them – all former CIA directors or deputy directors – wrote in The Wall Street Journal Wednesday that the interrogation program “was invaluable in three critical ways: It led to the capture of senior al Qaeda operatives, thereby removing them from the battlefield. It led to the disruption of terrorist plots and prevented mass casualty attacks, saving American and Allied lives. It added enormously to what we knew about al Qaeda as an organization and therefore informed our approaches on how best to attack, thwart and degrade it."
The report's release may have helped distract attention from the sideshow surrounding MIT professor Jonathan Gruber’s testimony on Capitol Hill Tuesday concerning the misleading ways Obamacare was sold to the country and the part he played in all that. It does little else.
No humane society condones torture – and with good reason. Torture violates the rights of each and every individual subjected to it, rights endowed by their creator. What the U.S. government did with the detainees does not, however, rise to that level no matter what the committee report says. Reasonable people can, one supposes, differ on that point but the line is not at all clear. There are at least 50 shades of gray involved.
