http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2014/10/24/koch-brother-haters-will-have-a-hard-time-spinning-this-donation
The Koch Brothers Shake it Up
For the American left, the philanthropy of billionaires Charles and David Koch approaches an obsession. There is no cause they have touched, no effort they have mounted that is not – according to the clack of liberal journalists and bloggers who populate the Internet – somehow tainted by their association with it.
It’s no longer just their political giving that attracts attention. Liberal activists have taken to the streets to protest Koch support for museums, for the theater and the performing arts, for medical research and for just about any other cause to which the brothers – together or individually – choose to donate a share of their considerable wealth.
Their latest philanthropic effort, which is certain to receive critical attention, is fully consistent with their support for freedom of the individual, freedom in the marketplace and the protection of the constitutionally enumerated liberties we all enjoy. It will also probably turn more than a few heads in the chattering classes around so far that something might snap. You see the main beneficiaries of their latest act of largess will be the poor and the indigent.
[SEE: Political Cartoons]
Yes, you read that correctly. Koch Industries is making a generous grant to the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers to support its work in of the Sixth Amendment guarantee of right to counsel or, as devotees of cop shows might better recognize it, the part of the Miranda warnings read to everyone placed under arrest that they have the right to an attorney, to have the attorney present during questioning and to have an attorney provided for them free of charge if they can't afford it.
If "The Daily Show" was covering this gift to the criminal defense lawyers association, Jon Stewart might say that the Kochs were either hedging their bets for the future or overreacting to Robert F. Kennedy, Jr.’s recent comments about the need to put climate change skeptics like them in jail. In fact the grant, which is part of what is overall a remarkably consistent pattern of philanthropy that touches on something now all too common in America’s courtrooms: The abuse by federal prosecutors of their authority, power and the rules of evidence as documented by former Assistant U.S. Attorney Sidney Powell in her book "Licensed to Lie."
[MORE: Editorial Cartoons on Energy Policy]
The grant, the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers said in a release, is intended to do two things:
“We are excited to partner with the NACDL on this project designed to ensure both the promise of the Bill of Rights and the guarantee of the Sixth Amendment right to counsel are made real for all Americans,” said Koch Industries Senior Vice President and General Counsel Mark Holden. “We have worked with NACDL for over 10 years on a variety of issues,” he continued, “and they have been effective in building broad and diverse coalitions to bring about real and positive improvements in our criminal justice system for all Americans” consistent with what Holden identified as Koch Industries’ goal to “help people improve their lives.”
Though Holden did not raise the point, it is worth mentioning this particular gift stands in stark contrast to what some of the other notable and quotable billionaires putting money into political campaigns are doing. People like Tom Steyer, who is using a fortune in part made from financing coal-fired power plants in other parts of the world to buy seats in the U.S. Senate for liberals who will block access to affordable energy here in the United States. Or George Soros, who talks eloquently about the need for government to level the playing field between rich and poor but doesn’t consider it beneath him to crash the British pound, wiping out the retirement savings of millions of workers and retirees. Or Warren Buffet, who likes to sing the praise of green energy but admits the reason people like him invest in wind farms is because they generate generous tax breaks for investors instead of affordable electricity for the consumers.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on the Democratic Party]
It’s quite amazing, frankly, how little interest the good government groups on the left show in the activities of the anti-capitalist millionaires and billionaires who are trying to influence the direction of U.S. public policy – who also include, by the way, people who got rich in the subprime mortgage industry but sold out before the crash and now fund activities that lecture the rest of us on things like business and political ethics.
In a statement released when the grant was announced, Koch Industries Chairman and CEO Charles Koch voiced his pride in his company’s involvement. “All of my life,” he said, “I have supported and championed the Bill of Rights, which is the bedrock upon which our free society was built. We are supportive of the NACDL's efforts to make the Sixth Amendment's guarantee of an individual's right to counsel a reality for all Americans, especially those who are the most disadvantaged in our society."
It’s going to be interesting to see how the Koch haters out there try and spin this one.
