http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2014/10/08/in-the-battle-for-senate-gop-must-hit-democrats-on-security-failings
The 'Dangerous Democrats' Game Changer?
With just about a month to go, it is not yet clear which party will emerge from the November 2014 election with a majority in the U.S. Senate. At one point, the Republicans were heavily favored to win control of the chamber, but of late the party has seemed unable to close the deal in several key contested races.
One reason is unforeseen trouble in Kansas, where incumbent GOP Sen. Pat Roberts cannot seem to catch a break. The threat to his re-election comes not from a Democrat but from Greg Orman, a multimillionaire investor running as an independent who has been dodging questions about issues important to Kansas like the Keystone XL pipeline. Orman won’t say which party he would caucus with if he wins, and he positions himself as all things to all voters. Roberts is still in the race, but the uncertainty of the outcome has some longtime election observers believing this is the seat that will determine who controls the Senate for the next two years.
[: Cartoons about Congress]
Still, there are nearly five times as many seats held by Democrats in play as there are ones in the Republican column. And national security is the issue that can give the GOP a decisive edge that will enable them to defeat incumbents in North Carolina, Virginia, New Hampshire and Colorado – and win the open seat in Iowa.
For most of the last six years, there has been a widespread but soft consensus that the U.S. should pull back from its international commitments, particularly in Iraq and Afghanistan. Obama acted on this despite warnings from some in GOP circles that a haphazard U.S. withdrawal would lead to chaos in regions that were still quite unstable, even with American troops still on the ground. Events such as the rise of the Islamic State group in Syria and Iraq have proven the naysayers right, putting the president on the defensive politically and giving the GOP a double-digit lead in some recent polls on the question of which party is more trusted on foreign policy and national security issues. The latest CBS News/New York Times poll has Obama’s foreign policy approval rating at a record-low 34 percent. “When security issues pop, it can be disastrous for Democrats. In 2002, security voters catapulted the Republicans into a Senate majority,” says Matt Schlapp, chairman of the American Conservative Union and a former White House political adviser to George W. Bush.
[: Cartoons on the 2014 Congressional Elections]
Up to now, “Democrats have been confident that the country was so war weary” that they could safely follow Obama’s lead, Schlapp says. “That worked until voters got scared by beheadings, crucifixions and TV taunts. America does not want another war, but they do want a president who will take the right steps to protect us. It’s when we are weak that we face war.”
Unlike the run-up to the last war in Iraq, no one doubts that the Islamic State group is dangerous, a threat to U.S. interests and the security of the world. The savagery exhibited by the group in the beheading of hostages has driven the point home in ways that are easy to understand, producing what former House Speaker Newt Gingrich calls “a fundamental change in public opinion.”
[GALLERY: Cartoons on the Economy]
“An American public that was weary of spending money and losing lives without victory found itself confronted by pure evil. No matter how much most Americans wanted to have a more peaceful future, [the Islamic State group] convinced them America had to re-engage militarily to defeat people who were prepared to kill us in horrible ways,” Gingrich says, which has implications for the 2014 elections that are both profound and immediate. People are ready to judge Democrats by how Obama responds.
“National security has jumped to the top of voters’ concerns due to two things: The [border crossing] by tens of thousands of children [showing] that our southern border is nowhere near being secure and the murder of Americans by [the Islamic State group] on global TV,” says veteran GOP consultant Charlie Black. An immediate pivot, as those like North Carolina GOP Senate candidate Thom Tillis has made to the issue of keeping America safe (immediacy being necessary because early voting in some states has already begun), gives the Republicans a chance to make the case, says Black.
There’s ample evidence for this. Instead of campaigning on just jobs and the economy, GOP candidates like Ed Gillespie in Virginia, Scott Brown in New Hampshire and Colorado’s Cory Gardner need to talk about how the Democrats they seek to beat have been rubber stamps for Obama’s national security policy that has allowed the Islamic State group to seek, gain and hold territory in a region vital to U.S. interests. Members of the president’s own party have asked no tough questions and, for years, had their eyes off the ball. Now, they have to answer for their neglect.
[: Cartoons about the Republican Party]
“No one believes President Obama is prepared to implement a winning campaign. His ‘latte salute’ was only the most recent example of his disdain for, and disengagement from, all things military. His effort on “60 Minutes” to blame the intelligence community for underestimating [the Islamic State group] is coming back to bite him as person after person says it simply is not true,” Gingrich says.
“If ‘dangerous Democrats’ sinks in,” Gingrich predicts that the elections that are close for the moment may blow wide open in the GOP’s favor. “People want to be safe more than they want most of what Democrats are focused on.”
To succeed, the GOP needs to present a united front without necessarily attacking Obama directly. Instead, Republicans should argue that in a period when strong leadership is needed, the president and his Democrats have shown none.
