http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2014/09/15/ted-cruz-booing-a-symptom-of-growing-first-world-anti-semitism
Booing Cruz and Blaming the Jews
Whether Texas Republican Sen. Ted Cruz “committed” an act of political courage at the recent inaugural summit called by the group In Defense of Christians is for others to judge. Some have called it simple common decency. Others suggest it might mark the beginning of the restoration of civility in the political life of the nation. A few have suggested it was just politics as usual, a form of grandstanding planned and executed for the benefit of re-transmission on the nightly news and YouTube.
Whatever deeper meaning the chattering class can divine from the event, Cruz was right when he told those hectoring and booing his remarks that if they could not stand with Israel and the Jews, he could not stand with them – mic drop – and left the stage. What happened at this particular conference – even though those hooting the Texas senator’s references to Israel were clearly in the minority – is a reminder to us all that anti-Semitism is not only alive and well, it’s making a comeback.
[SEE: Cartoons on Ted Cruz]
By now we are all used to discord in the Middle East. The persecution, rape and forced conversions of those who follow Jesus by the Islamic State group in Iraq and Syria are profoundly disturbing. The beheading – caught on videotape – of two American journalists and a British aid worker could (and should) be considered an act of war. As bad as those things are, however, we must not forget that its authors believe this particular script ends with the destruction of Israel, no matter how many rewrites it has to undergo along the way.
“But that’s in the Third World,” you say, “among uncivilized people. The rest of the world is different.” Really? How then are we to account for the chants of “Kill the Jews” in the French riots of late or the anti-Semitic graffiti that seems to be on the upswing in major American urban centers with large Jewish populations such as New York, Philadelphia and Los Angeles. The First World is as much infected with this disease as the Third World – and it needs to be eradicated.
What is truly remarkable about what Cruz did is the way that it has become noteworthy. One might think, indeed, many had hoped that the horrors uncovered in the various “camps” that festooned the countryside in Germany and Eastern Europe at the end of the Second World War put real teeth into the idea of “never again.” It was easy to be lulled into a false sense of security, expecting that the sort of public expressions against both Jews and Israel that provoked Cruz to leave the stage would have been shouted down by other attendees at the conference without a second thought. Sadly, this was not the case.
[SEE: Cartoons on the Middle East]
In times of global crisis, scapegoating is an easy way to deflect attention from the real problems. All over the world it’s happening again: Don’t have a job? Blame the Jews. The country is in the midst of social upheaval? Blame the Jews. People are hungry? Blame the Jews? Denied opportunity to advance or excel at your God-given talents? Blame the Jews.
It can happen again, and, unless we are vigilant, it very well might. Not in precisely the same way perhaps as between 1933 and 1945, but the civilized world must be on guard. Just as we decry the persecution of Christians and other religious and ethnic minorities by Muslims in the areas now controlled by the Islamic State group, we must volubly denounce those who attack the Jews, especially those who attempt to do so under cover of the name of Christ. This is one visitor to our culture that cannot be allowed to get its foot in the door again.
