Martine Wright blasts UK Sport over sitting volleyball cuts
By Gareth A Davies
10:06PM GMT 19 Dec 2012
Comments
Wright lost both legs in the terrorist attack on London in 2005 but recovered to represent Britain at London 2012, playing alongside several former soldiers, including Samantha Bowen, who was injured during active service in Iraq.
“Our expectations and funding needs were relatively low, compared to some other sports. We feel sitting volleyball offers an outlet not only for recreation and sporting talent, but also a rehabilitation vehicle for injured personnel,” Wright told Telegraph Sport.
Wright won the Helen Rollason Award for outstanding achievement in the face of adversity at the BBC Sports Personality of the Year awards on Sunday, urged UK Sport’s executives to reconsider the blanket removal of funding.
Overall in the cycle 2013-17, funding levels for Paralympic sports have been increased by 43 per cent, taking the overall figure from £46.5 million to just over £70 million. The only two sports to have no further funding from UK Sport are sitting volleyball, and wheelchair fencing. Para-triathlon, not yet a Paralympic Sport will be given £2.2 million to develop.
“As a new team, we performed to our expectations in London and were looking forward to continuing to make progress,” Wright added. “We hope UK Sport will be able to reconsider its funding position in the weeks and months ahead.
Paying public miss out over Olympic seating equality
You couldn’t get best seats at the Olympics because VIPs took them
Searle: rowing coach Grobler's stuck in past
Angry reaction to funding cuts
Over 75m attend events in 2012
Locog forced into ticket U-turn
“It’s disappointing news about the lack of funding to take the team forward to Rio. While it is great to see an investment into grassroots sports, it’s an opportunity being missed to inspire and interest people who are new to the sport.
“Yes, the funding has been cut, but we have worked so hard in the last 2 1/2 years that this is not the last you have seen of sitting volleyball.
“It might seem that some of these sports including sitting volleyball have just been created for the Paralympics in London but this is all our lives. It’s a dream, this is my dream so we’re determined for the programme to carry on – and it will carry on in January and we will be on that path to Rio.”

