Australian Open 2015: At last, someone – Britain's Heather Watson – mentions the P word in Melbourne
By Jim White
5:28PM GMT 22 Jan 2015
Comments
Poor Heather Watson. She arrived at the Australian Open in belting form, strong, purposeful, seemingly ready at last to apply her considerable potential to a grand slam. And then she played her first-round tie against Tsvetana Pironkova with all the conviction of a balloon with a leak. The zest and fizz she had demonstrated in winning a warm-up tournament in Hobart had disappeared. She was listless, underpowered, lacklustre. Her serve was slow and her returns short.
Given that she had spent much of last year struggling with glandular fever, there was a fear among those watching that she might once again have come down with a debilitating bug. That was how off the pace she looked. But then, in her post-match press conference, she revealed what had happened to make her perform so below par. It was her time of the month. She had been beaten not so much by an opponent as by the menstrual cycle.
What struck me about Watson’s candour was how rarely we hear this from sportswomen. In fact, I cannot remember anybody previously revealing such details. When Mark Pougatch interviewed Annabelle Croft on Radio Five Live on Tuesday about the debilitating effects menstruation can have, she congratulated him on talking about something which had been ignored ever since women became top-line athletes. “Blimey,” she said. “We’re talking about periods on the radio.”
Yet, in a business in which margins count for so much, having a period at the wrong moment must be a hugely significant thing. Although it affects different women in different ways, there are plenty who are struck monthly by debilitating temporary side effects that give the simplest of tasks suddenly traumatic context. Straightforward activities such as going to the shops, sitting at the desk at work, actually getting out of bed, can be horribly compromised by monthly hormonal rebooting. Never mind playing in a grand-slam tennis tournament.
With this news, suddenly the fog around all sorts of apparently unfathomable sporting slip-ups clears. Previously unexplained failure against expectation in Wimbledon and Olympics, in hockey and marathons, becomes explicable. Martina Navratilova, for instance, revealed this week that at Wimbledon once, she had been struck down so badly she had to spend the day between a semi-final and final in bed with the covers pulled up over her head. She was lucky, she said. If her period had arrived 24 hour earlier or 24 hours later, she would not have added another title to her peerless collection.
Navratilova backs Watson's period pains complaint
'I have nightmares about getting my period at Wimbledon'
Bouchard twirl request was sheer bad manners
Ouch! Ball boy hit in the...
“It really does play such a big role and it can happen at unexpected times,” said Navratilova. “You may not even know that it’s coming. You’re dreading it.”
She added that sportswomen had been traditionally reluctant to reveal precise details of what was going on because they did not wish to be seen making excuses. Which, rather than embarrassment, may be the reason why nobody previous to Watson has given such explanation.
For a sports person to admit that they have been unduly affected by a natural process can be construed as a confession of weakness. Sport demands that its practitioners never demonstrate that they can do anything other than cope with whatever circumstance throws at them. And yet, clearly for some female athletes, the ill-timed intervention of hormones can be the equivalent in its incapacitating effect of pulling a hamstring.
Now that Watson has given public voice to what has long been an obvious issue, the question is: what do we do about it? Clearly, it would be impossible to introduce a workable system of postponement into an athletic programme, not least because of the potential for bending the rules.
Having to prove that they really were in the midst of the cycle before an athlete could benefit from any delay would be an invasion of privacy which nobody would be willing to undergo.
Certainly, there are drugs available to alleviate muscle pain. But some are proscribed by doping regulation. And, in any case, proposing the taking of more drugs is not a direction sport should pursue.
The truth of the matter is that, despite Watson’s moment of candour, women athletes are likely in the future to have to continue to grin and bear it. Or, rather, grimace and suffer.
Let’s just hope we men watching begin to extend a little more understanding for dips in form than we have previously demonstrated.
Still, at least all this sudden candour gives someone in the Australian Open the opportunity to do the game a service. The next time the irritating Channel 9 broadcaster Ian Cohen asks one of the players to “give us a twirl” out in the middle of court as he did a clearly embarrassed Eugenie Bouchard this week, they could give him a swift clip round the ear. And then subsequently claim it was not their fault: they were suffering from PMT.

