http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/665678/s/448c59bf/sc/7/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cworld0Ecup0C1148170A50CSepp0EBlatter0Erejects0EFifa0Epresidency0Edebate0Bhtml/story01.htm
Sepp Blatter rejects Fifa presidency debate
By Ben Rumsby
10:00PM GMT 18 Mar 2015
Comments
Sepp Blatter has formally rejected an invitation from the BBC and Sky to take part in a live television debate with his Fifa presidency rivals. But the way the broadcasters learnt of his refusal could see him come under attack from his opponents after it was communicated via a Fifa official.
The other three candidates - Fifa vice-president Prince Ali Bin Al Hussein of Jordan, Dutch Football Association president Michael van Praag and former Portugal international Luis Figo - all agreed to take part in a debate Football Association chairman Greg Dyke offered to stage at Wembley.
Blatter’s refusal rules out any prospect of it happening ahead of May’s election.
Luis Figo is standing against Sepp Blatter
Fifa general secretary Jerome Valcke has reminded “all Fifa staff members that they, consultants or any other persons appointed by or working for Fifa are not permitted to take part in any way in these election campaigns”.
Blatter’s opponents are understood to have already been questioning his apparent use of Fifa staff in helping him win support to remain president. He also appears not to have appointed anyone to work on his campaign.
Prince Ali said last month that a public debate was an important step for the world governing body, saying: “If we are talking about transparency, I would like to see a public debate including the incumbent.
Figo also indicated his support, saying: “The fans deserve to know what the candidates offer for the future.” Uefa president Michel Platini, whose confederation is orchestrating efforts to unseat Blatter, said he did not care that the Swiss was refusing to take part in a debate.
Michel Platini does not believe Blatter is running scared
Saying he did not think Blatter was afraid of such scrutiny, he added: “He’s very good on television, Mr Blatter. What has he to be afraid about?” Blatter is likely to face questions about the issue at a news conference in Zurich on Friday following Fifa’s executive committee meeting, which will decide on the dates for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar.
The row over a switch to the winter has created a rift between the Premier League and Uefa, which widened yesterday when Platini poured scorn on Richard Scudamore’s claim he felt “let down” by European football’s governing body.
Like the Premier League, Uefa had been against November-December dates, having originally lobbied for a January-February event. But it backed down ahead of last month’s final meeting of the task force set up to explore the matter.
That angered Scudamore but Uefa president Platini was unapologetic, saying: “It’s not only the Premier League in the world. There are many leagues, many players, many clubs.” Platini said Uefa’s willingness to embrace November-December proved it was prepared to make concessions.
He also stood by his decision to vote for Qatar to stage the 2022 World Cup and push for it to be moved to winter, despite it having bid for a summer tournament.
“I always said that it would be a winter World Cup,” said Platini.
