<<<<<<< HEAD
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568832/s/42c2c538/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ctennis0Cwilliamssisters0C1137290A60CSerena0EWilliams0Eand0Eher0Esister0EVenus0Edeserve0Emore0Erespect0Eand0Ewe0Eshould0Echerish0Ethem0Ewhile0Ewe0Ecan0Bhtml/story01.htm
=======
>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
Serena Williams and her sister Venus deserve more respect and we should cherish them while we can
By Charlie Eccleshare
6:05PM GMT 27 Jan 2015
Comments
At the Australian Open on Wednesday, Venus and Serena Williams will play quarter-final matches aged 34 and 33 respectively. For a sport as unforgiving on the body as tennis, getting to the last eight of a grand slam at that age is a commendable achievement.
The achievement is even more remarkable given that Serena is still the No 1 ranked player in the world so getting to this stage is simply business as usual, while Venus has had to deal with the auto-immune disease Sjögren’s syndrome as she has fought back to the upper echelons of the game.
But in spite of this, their achievements continue to be met largely with indifference.
And it’s an indifference that is so strikingly at odds with the seemingly endless praise lavished on Roger Federer, who is just one month older than Serena and as such a useful comparison.
Firstly, when comparing the two, it may surprise many to learn that Serena has won more grand slam singles titles than the Swiss superstar, not to mention a stack of doubles titles as well. In any case, the tributes to the grace and brilliance of Federer that continue to be written, compared with the relative silence on Serena would suggest that it is the former who has continued to dominate as sporting old age tightens its grip.
Watch match highlights: Williams v Sharapova
Serena cranking through the gears down under
'Give us a twirl': Sexism row at Australian Open
Murray crushes Kyrgios to seal semi-final spot
Only he hasn’t; whereas she has.
Federer has not won a grand slam since Wimbledon 2012. Williams by contrast has won four since then (as well as Wimbledon 2012), which incidentally is three more than any other female player during this period.
But Federer plays beautiful tennis, Serena does not, is the obvious counter-argument. Perhaps, but that is subjective, and just as Federer took the sport to new heights with his finesse, Serena, and Venus alongside her, introduced a power and ruthlessness that had scarcely been seen before and has been thrilling to watch.
Taking Federer out of the equation, Serena’s record of 18 singles grand slams, 13 women’s doubles grand slams, two mixed doubles grand slams and four Olympic gold medals is pretty handy.
Normally with such great champions, the cliché is that "their achievements need no introduction", but with Serena it feels oddly as if they do.
Venus’s renaissance has been similarly impressive, and the graft required to be in a grand slam quarter-final after the injuries and illness she’s suffered with should not be underestimated.
To still have the desire to go through such physical pain and sacrifice, having already won pretty much everything in the sport, deserves the utmost respect. Let’s be honest, when it was Andre Agassi and Jimmy Connors doing similar things, the pundits were falling over themselves reaching for the superlatives.
Venus and Serena’s longevity is particularly noteworthy given they were often seen as being too focused on their sinister sounding "outside interests" for the sport’s liking. Williams Jnr, by winning her 18th singles grand slam title 15 years after her first, has surely proven that to be nonsense, like so much that is written about the two players.
Fortunately for the two sisters, they give off the impression they couldn’t care less about how they are perceived. Good on them, but what may frustrate them is when tournament schedulers show a similar lack of respect.
At last year’s Wimbledon, Venus, who has won five singles titles and five doubles titles at SW19, was shunted to Court Two and then Court Three for her first two matches. It’s impossible to imagine a male champion being treated in quite the same way, and by way of comparison when Pete Sampras had to play just one match on Court Two in 2002, he complained of a lack of respect.
So why are the Williams sisters treated differently?
Without wishing to wade into dangerous territory, it’s undeniable that their race has played a part. Tennis was caught on the hoof when two African-American girls taught by their eccentric father shattered the sport’s cosy framework in the late 1990s and began to cut a swathe through the sport.
The fact that these were two loud, sometimes confrontational, characters added to the game’s general sense of unease.
Admittedly, Serena in particular has not always helped herself with what can be a fiery temper. Her foul-mouth rants at US Open officials, first in 2009 and 2011 were shameful, and she was rightly punished for both.
Again though, there is an element of double standards here. Didn’t John McEnroe and Connors used to do this sort of thing pretty often? And when they did it, weren’t they just being "mavericks" or "personalities"?
The fact that Serena and Venus have been each other’s main rival has also not helped them, with many feeling their matches against each other suffered from their sorority and obvious friendship.
The pair's gender has been equally problematic – undoubtedly the women’s game is viewed as men’s tennis’ inferior sibling, and in some respects the lack of any sustained challenge to their dominance has somehow made it seem as if they’ve won titles almost by default.
To be clear, this article is by no means saying everyone should like the Williams sisters. After all, one of the great things about sport is that it is subjective and divisive.
Tennis in particular depends so much on personal taste, and almost unlike any other sport, it’s possible to start watching a match wanting one player to win, and before the end have switched allegiance because of one or both’s personality traits. The emerging Nick Kyrgios is yet another example of tennis players’ capacity to divide – I personally like the Aussie’s swagger; a friend who I normally agree with on such matters thinks he’s "a bit of a p----".
The main thing with Venus and Serena is that they cannot keep going for too much longer, and itis worth watching and enjoying them while we still can, because such supremely talented athletes with such phenomenal hunger do not come along very often.
They both play in the middle of the night UK time on Wednesday so those matches could be tricky to see, but maybe try and catch them later in the tournament, or failing that at this year’s Wimbledon – even if Venus is put on Court Two.
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
