http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570808/s/41cd66df/sc/8/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cnews0Cpredictions0Csport0C1130A65560Cgolf0Epredictions0E20A150Bhtml/story01.htm
Golf 2015: Rory McIlroy tees up Grand Slam
By James CorriganTelegraph golf correspondent
10:00AM GMT 27 Dec 2014
Discover more predictions for 2015 »
The year will begin with Northern Ireland’s Darren Clarke being appointed Europe’s Ryder Cup captain and with Fred Couples installed as his US counterpart so the biggest countdown in golf will begin – to the 2016 match in Hazeltine.
Clarke, the 2011 Open champion and a former mentor of the world No 1 Rory McIlroy, will soon learn that his job for the first few months basically consists of talking to the press about his young countryman.
And straight off the bat, Clarke will show himself to be a leader of genuine prescience when he says that McIlroy will win the Masters, the first major of the season in April, and so make it three majors in a row following his victories at The Open and USPGA Championship in 2014.
And now McIlroy will only have to win the US Open to follow Woods as the only player ever to hold all four major titles at the same time. Except it will be another Ulsterman, his great friend and Ryder Cup partner Graeme McDowell, who will win his second US Open. Northern Ireland will not know whether to party or commiserate, so will do both with equal success. And with Woods finishing third at his national championship, the build-up to the 144th Open will be one of the most hyped in memory.
Jamie Donaldson will lift the Claret Jug. Well, golf is never predictable and no one can deny that Wales’s second major-winner is not fully deserving on the Old Course. This will make it three out of three for the UK in the 2015 majors, but in the USPGA at Whistling Straits, Phil Mickelson will win his sixth major, and the Stars and Stripes will flutter once more.
Not for too long. At the Walker Cup at Royal Lytham, Great Britain and Ireland will regain the amateur equivalent of the Ryder Cup from the United States, while at the Solheim Cup, in the women’s equivalent of the Ryder Cup, Charley Hull, the ever-more impressive English starlet who by then will have finished second in two majors, will lead Europe to a glorious defence over America.
All that will be left is the fight for the end- of-season spectaculars – FedEx Cup on the PGA Tour and the Race to Dubai on the European Tour, both of which McIlroy wins with ease. So McIlroy will finish the year as he started – as golf ’s undisputed best. But Woods will be showing signs that he is regaining his finest form. And so golf will take a breath.
More sport predictions for 2015:
• Rugby 2015: who will be crowned champions at Twickenham in October? »
• The ultimate test for England captain Alastair Cook »
• Football 2015: drama, intrigue and endless debate »
