Ryder Cup 2014: Martin Kaymer's game and character perfect for Europe captain Paul McGinley
By James Corrigan
7:39PM BST 17 Jun 2014
1 Kaymer will be flying
Martin Kaymer has secured his berth on the Gleneagles team, but this time there will be no concerns about his form going into the match. Two years ago, Kaymer had lost his game completely and many suspected he would be a passenger; not least himself. But, in the event, he showed tremendous guts to beat Steve Stricker on the 18th and thus secure the point which meant Europe retained the Ryder Cup. His game and character will be cherished by Paul McGinley.
2 Fowler rising to occasion
Rickie Fowler made a marvellous debut on his Ryder Cup bow in 2010 in Celtic Manor, fully justifying Corey Pavin’s wild card when winning the last three holes against Edoardo Molinari to win a half-point in the singles. Anyone who watched him overshadow Rory McIlroy in the 2007 Walker Cup in Royal County Down and then win all four points in the amateur equivalent of the Ryder Cup two years later recognises a genuine match player. Tom Watson will be delighted to see him rising to seventh in the standings after missing out on Medinah.
3 Mickelson deserves wild card
Five things we learnt this weekend
Five things we learnt at the French Open and the Greenbrier Classic
Kaymer comeback gives Europe the edge
The day Watson silenced the Belfry
Phil Mickelson is rightly proud of his record of qualifying for the team nine times in succession since 1995 and he will be desperate to maintain the run at Gleneagles. However, the left-hander has slipped out of the top nine and, as he is playing only more counting events before the American cut-off point at the conclusion of the USPGA, he needs a big week. However, Mickelson is not putting well and the chances are he will require a Watson wild card. Surely the US captain cannot overlook someone of that talent and experience.
4 Fortunes fluctuate for three
Ian Poulter, Lee Westwood and Graeme McDowell are all outside the top nine, although McGinley was full of praise for Poulter’s performance in finishing in the top 20 of the US Open, the week after coming in the top 10 at Memorial. He is finding form at the right time. Westwood and McDowell, however, are a different story. With both due to play roughly eight events before the end of the race, time is on their side. Neither will want to rely on a captain’s pick.
5 Cup is winning over locals
It is fair to say the locals are getting ready for Gleneagles with tomorrow signalling the start of the 100-day countdown. Clubs have been issued with a ‘Ryder Cup Ready’ toolkit in an attempt to see them spread the gospel. The clubs which rise to the challenge will be rewarded with tickets to the match. Jackie Davidson, who is the manager of Clubgolf, the Ryder Cup project to develop the junior game in Scotland, told the Herald that some of the initiatives are very inventive. “One club not far from Gleneagles even has Ryder Cup-designed toilet paper,” Davidson said. Roll up, roll up...

