Where does Fernando Alonso rank in list of the best-paid sportsmen?
Rafael Nadal insists he will be '100 per cent' for Australian Open and targets December return for training
By Jonathan Liew
11:55AM GMT 19 Nov 2014
Comments
Rafael Nadal has announced that he will return to training on December 1, and insists that he will be at 100 per cent for the Australian Open in January. Nadal has hardly played in the second half of this year with a variety of injuries and ailments, and has not won a tournament since the French Open in June. But having had an operation to remove his appendix, and stem cell therapy on his troublesome back, he said being fit for Melbourne was a realistic objective.
“That’s my goal,” he said. “In 10-12 days I start practising again, so I will have the whole month of December to get my tennis and body at the right level at the beginning of January. And if that happens, I really feel that I can come back strong. I will be competitive in every tournament I play next year.”
Statistically, the 2014 season has been one of the worst of Nadal’s career. His win record of 81 per cent is his lowest since 2004, when he was still ranked outside the world’s top 50. Now aged 28, there remain question marks over his ability to recapture the form that has won him 14 Grand Slam titles. But Nadal has endured such doubts before, and always defied them.
In retrospect, he admitted that returning to the Tour in September, playing three tournaments without getting past the quarter-finals, was an error. “I shouldn’t have announced [my intention] to play in the last part of the season,” he said. “I’m trying 100 per cent to fix my back again. You can imagine that when you are out of a tennis court for two months, 100 per cent you will not be. But I will increase the practice day by day, and try to be 100 per cent around the 8th December, and then one month to play at 100 per cent.
“Level of tennis, speed of the legs, all the things you need to come back strong. One month and a few more days at an exhibition in Abu Dhabi will help me to arrive in Doha [Qatar, the first tournament of the year] in normal condition, being competitive. And if that happens, you need to start increasing the level in every single match.”
Federer attacks umpire over Wawrinka row
Roger Federer and Stan Wawrinka: we're friends not enemies
The moment Mirka heckled Stan
Wilander: Federer-Wawrinka spat reminds me of McEnroe-Connors
Thirteen years into a glittering career, Nadal admitted that he is more sanguine about injuries now than he used to be. “The feeling is a little bit different today from in 2005 [when he was plagued by a foot injury],” he said. “That was very hard. It was the first year that I started to be on the top.
“Then in 2012 I had the knee, and this year not very important injuries. Sure, that is a little bit easier to accept at 28-years-old, and with all the good things that have happened to be during the last 10 years. [2005] was the beginning, and I didn’t know if I would have the chance to get back to the top.”

