http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569351/s/396ca259/sc/7/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cmen0Cactive0C10A76750A60CThe0Etunnels0Ethat0Ehide0Ethe0Etrue0Ehorror0Eof0Ethe0ELondon0EMarathon0Bhtml/story01.htm
The tunnels that hide the true horror of the London Marathon
By Hugh Morris
12:12PM BST 16 Apr 2014
Comments
What an excruciating, exhilarating, bizarre, unique and debilitating experience. I have never experienced anything like that: the sense of community among the runners; the passion and support of the crowd; the empathy and aid of the stewards; the sun, the sweat, the pain, the tears, the constant running, mile after mile.
I hope I never will again.
The fight
It was really hard. Spraining my ankle about four weeks before the race probably didn't help matters, but running the London Marathon was much more of a struggle than I anticipated.
I ran. I ached. I slowed. I limped. I walked. I stopped. I doubled over. I thought I was going to be sick. I heard the crowd's cries move from motivational to sympathetic and then, when I began to run again, congratulatory. I thought about what would happen if I stood still, if I just let the marathon pass. Then, whether it was shouts from the crowd, a pat on the back from a fellow runner, or a pang of guilt or pride inside myself, I began to run again.
Football fans 'experience more stress' than players
10 years of Nike Free 'barefoot' running trainers
Marathon feet: bloodied, bruised and blistered
Paula Radcliffe's 5 last-minute marathon tips
What it's like to run a Marathon with a tiger on your back
10 things no one tells you before you run the London Marathon
People keep asking me how tough it actually was, as though you can put a number on pain. Here's my answer: with only 600m to go, I could not run any more. I'd walked for a mile or two earlier on in the race because of the pain my ankle was giving me, but was determined to run it home. I ran from about 24 miles to 25 and two thirds, and then I saw the 600m to go sign and I just couldn't do it. I couldn't summon the strength to beat the exhaustion and pain howling through my body to run 600m. I stopped and composed myself, the crowd screaming at me to give it one last push. I limped for about 300m, and then I broke into a sort of staccatoed trot. I'd given too much to just to walk across the line.
That's how much it hurt.
The crowds
I knew they would never stop cheering, screaming, shouting and whooping, but I did not expect the support they proffer in other ways. I had to tell myself sternly to stop taking everything offered to me: jelly babies, Haribo, banana slices, orange quarters. But the fact people were supplying such sugar hits with a genuine concern for runners was amazing. To anyone I took a sweet or orange slice off on Sunday: I'm sorry I snatched it from your hand and kept running, often failing to look you in the eye or even say thank you, but it really meant a lot to me. Thank you.
One of my favourite crowd interactions was when I stopped because I genuinely thought I was going to be sick (too many jelly babies) and squatted in front of a group of friends. They shouted “C'mon Hugh!” a few times before realising their shouts were not going to budge me. When I stood up straight there was a look of perplexed concern on their faces – they clearly weren't sure what to shout in this situation. I asked them what mile we are at, reckoning it was 22. They said 23. I said, "good". And set off again, a mile and a few retches lighter.
The tunnels
They don't tell you about the tunnels. There are two: Blackfriars Underpass and a longer one I can't recall the name of earlier in the route. But yes, the tunnels. It's like 'Nam. Or the Somme. As soon as you enter a tunnel, as soon as the natural light departs and the noise of the crowd dampens, the collective mask of the marathon runners slips.
There are runners strewn across the tunnel side, pissing, puking, crying. It's like the Grand National when the horses gallop past their fallen comrades. The tunnel is where you see what's it really like to run a marathon. But it's not demoralising, it's heartening. You get bored of 60-year-olds springing past you, so to see a fit man your age gasping for breath, propping up the tunnel wall and fighting back tears is quite nice. Then, as you emerge from the darkness, you reapply your make-up and break into a healthy jog. The spectators are none the wiser.
The finish
No arms in the air, no cries of victory, no pyrotechnics, I was utterly depleted. I had nothing left. And I don't think I was alone. There were few smiles on the other side of the tape, mostly grimaces. As I propped myself up, hands on knees, I was ushered forward so as not to get in the way of runners behind me, of which there were few. I staggered forward to have the timing chip cut from my trainer laces before I was presented with my medal. I just about managed a smile as my medal hung from my neck for the first time. Then I realised that in my frail state the medal was too heavy for my ginger steps and the ribbon rubbed my severely sunburnt neck so I took it off and put it in my pocket. It wasn't until I'd left the secure runners area and needed people to know why I was hobbling like a caricature old man than I felt like I had to put it on. It was still too heavy.
