London marathon runner who died after collapsing at finish line named Robert Berry
By Keith Perry
7:26PM BST 14 Apr 2014
Comments
A London Marathon runner who collapsed and died at the finishing line was competing to raise money for his "inspirational" mother, who had been diagnosed with a brittle bone condition.
Mr Berry was given medical attention immediately after finishing the race but was pronounced dead at hospital on Sunday.
According to his page on the charity donation website JustGiving, he had been attempting to raise funds for the National Osteoporosis Society. His mother Ann, 72, was diagnosed with the disease 20 years ago.
Mr Berry is the 12th fatality in the race’s 34-year history.
On his JustGiving donations page, Mr Berry said he was undertaking the marathon after his mother was diagnosed with the condition aged 52.
London Marathon runner, 42, dies
Farah better off without marathon
London Marathon - video diary
Mr Berry, from Reading, Berks, wrote: " I'm running the London Marathon in support of the National Osteoporosis Society for the support given to my mother who was diagnosed with Osteoporosis at the age of 52 but whose current condition (we found out later) was triggered from a lifting incident at the age of 47.
"Because of the stress on her lower back, two sets of bones in her lower spine collapsed."
In a touching message on his own website, he added: "This page is dedicated to my mum, who despite being diagnosed with Osteoporosis at the relatively early age of 52 years, has been an inspiration through the continued positive outlook she has displayed ever since, despite some quite clear discomfort."
Tributes and donations began pouring in after news of his death broke. The latest total stood at £20,706.35 with 1,722 donations.
Mark Jameson, who also ran in the marathon, donated £10 and wrote: " God bless you Rob. Your family must be so proud of you, raising money to help your Mum and others. So sorry it had to end in this way. R.I.P."
One anonymous donor added: "I didn't know you but am so sad you gave your life doing such a wonderful thing. God bless you."
Another read: "In memory of Mr Berry (RIP). You gave your life trying to do good for others."
Mr Berry, who worked in IT services, ran the Reading half marathon last month.
His website includes an interview with his mother Anne, where she describes having limited mobility as a result of osteoporosis.
"Despite the regular pain and discomfort, with the two hip operations on bones the density of someone typically the age of 100, I am able to walk short distances and with my husband's support it is manageable," says Mrs Berry.
According to his training regime, Mr Berry had been preparing for the marathon since December.
A statement from race organiser Virgin Money said: "It is with regret that we can now confirm that Mr Robert Berry, aged 42, collapsed at the finish of the London Marathon.
"He was immediately taken to one of our medical facilities where he was treated by four consultants, including one in emergency medicine. He was transferred to St Mary's Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.
"The organisers of the Virgin Money London Marathon would like to continue to express their sincere condolences to the family and friends of Mr Berry and our thoughts and deepest sympathies are with them all at this difficult time."
The last death was in 2012 when event hairdresser Claire Squires, 30, from North Kilworth, Leicestershire, collapsed a mile from the finishing line and died later from cardiac failure.
She was raising money for the Samaritans and in the week after her death donations to her fundraising website jumped from £500 to more than £1m. An inquest later blamed a drinks supplement she had taken.
The majority of other deaths were caused by pre-existing heart conditions, either blocked vessels or congenital problems.
In 2007, 22-year-old David Rogers died from drinking too much water.
Hugh Brasher, race director of the Virgin Money London Marathon, said: "We did very unfortunately have one death of a runner, who had finished, and our thoughts are very much with the friends and family of that runner.
"Overall it was a fantastic day, but it always is tinged with a little bit of sadness when something like that happens."
Meanwhile, an elite runner from Sierra Leone who went missing after finishing the women's race in 20th place is still missing.
Scotland Yard launched an appeal to find Mami Konneh Lahun, 24, when she did not return to her temporary accommodation in Greenwich where she had been staying since arriving in the UK on April 7.
The runner has no known links to the UK and is not in possession of a mobile phone.
Police said earlier that she had been found in Greenwich, but later reissued an appeal saying this was an error and she had not been seen since the race.
An estimated 36,000 people took part in yesterday's race, the 34th London Marathon, from elite athletes to fun-runners raising money for charities.
More than 1,200 volunteers from St John Ambulance lined the streets and medical staff advised runners to take on plenty of water and keep well hydrated as the race got under way under near-cloudless skies.

