Manuel Pellegrini insists he is not a failure - and blames fixture list for Manchester City exit
By Mark Ogden, in Barcelona
11:35PM GMT 18 Mar 2015
Comments
Manuel Pellegrini insisted Manchester City’s Champions League quest did not end in failure before blaming English football’s congested fixture list for the Premier League’s disastrous performance after Barcelona sent his team the same way as Chelsea and Arsenal.
Despite a remarkable performance by goalkeeper Joe Hart, who produced as many as nine crucial saves in the Nou Camp, the Premier League champions exited the Champions League at the last 16 stage to leave England without a representative in the quarter-finals for the second time in three seasons.

The 1-0 defeat against Barcelona confirmed the La Liga leaders 3-1 aggregate victory, with City being eliminated by the Spanish giants for the second successive campaign.
But with pressure mounting over his position as City manager – the club’s Abu Dhabi hierarchy had targeted ‘progress’ in this season’s Champions League – Pellegrini insisted his team’s campaign could not be dismissed as a failure.
• Henry Winter: Inquest set to start for Pellegrini • Messi is just too good for the Premier League • Five ways for English football to improve in Europe
“It is not a failure and I don’t see it is a failure,” Pellegrini said. “It is a disappointment, but we have reached the last sixteen twice in two seasons. Before that, City had not gone beyond the group stage.
“We were unlucky to play Barcelona on both occasions that we qualified and if we had been drawn against another team, maybe would now be in the quarter-finals.
“They are the best team in the world and Lionel Messi was imperious, so we have to admit that Barcelona were the better team.
“But we have had a big restriction on our squad size and ability to sign important players, which meant we could not reinforce out squad like other teams.

“We also arrived at this having played throughout January and February, playing so many games.
“It is difficult to explain why English clubs have all gone out because the Premier League is a very strong league with lots of rich teams, but we arrive at this stage by getting to February not as fresh as we should be, so it could be very tiring for English teams.”
Pellegrini’s complaint about the workload facing his team and Premier League rivals drew some sympathy from Barcelona coach Luis Enrique.
“We are used to resting during winter with our families,” Enrique said. “I heard (Southampton manager) Ronald Koeman complaining about the number of fixtures in England, so maybe it is an advantage for us.
“I don’t know, it is impossible to say, but we do enjoy watching the English teams playing on Boxing Day.”
Dejected: City troop off beaten in Barcelona
Pellegrini, who defended his tactical approach over the two legs, remained defiant about his future as manager, with the Chilean reiterating his insistence that he has nothing to worry about.
“It (future) is not a distraction,” Pellegrini said. “I never worry about me, so it's not a distraction.
“I always feel responsible for my team because I pick the players and the way we play. The performance has a lot to do with the tactics, but I would do exactly the same again.
“It is very difficult to beat Barcelona. If we scored the penalty (missed by Sergio Aguero) it may not have been so quiet for Barcelona in the end.
Spot of bother: Sergio Aguero's penalty is saved
“But we have been beaten by the best team in the world, so it is night the correct time to analyse what we must do next season.”
City’s plans for next season will see director of football Txiki Begiristain watch Wolfsburg midfielder Kevin De Bruyne in action against Inter Milan on Thursday evening.

But while many City players face uncertain futures, goalkeeper Hart earned his place in the club’s hall of fame with his performance against Barcelona.
“I'm in there to make saves and they hit me a lot of times tonight,” Hart said. “I was busy, it was definitely busy!”

