Keep the flame alive: we were game and gave it a go
By David Robson, Tom Chivers and Gillian Reynolds
8:23PM BST 15 Aug 2012
Comments
David Robson, a keen cricketer who knows it’s taking part that counts
The Olympics have shown us what it is to perform supremely well, but the Games’ true legacy is to inspire millions to perform badly. That is all most people are capable of.
In sport, unlike brain surgery, DIY or politics, being useless is not a catastrophe. The Prime Minister calls for more “competitive sport”. In yesterday’s Daily Telegraph, Sir Steve Redgrave gently corrected him – sport is not just about winners. And don’t I know it? I have been a loser since before either of them was born.
If I had spent as much of my life playing politics as I have spent playing cricket I would have been prime minister long ago. I am a batsman (theoretically), but far more likely to live to 100 than ever score a century. I still play today, at 67 (above). Age has not withered me.
Youngsters think I must have been good once, or else why would I still be playing? But I have always been this bad. There is photographic evidence that I captained a football side when I was 10. Heaven knows why. I was certainly one of what the teacher called “the weaker brethren”. My great privilege is always to have been given the right to take part and fail over and over again.
Ministers unveil tax breaks for sports
Keep The Flame Alive: Three more school playing fields to be sold
Keep The Flame Alive: Tory council clears sale of school playing field which produced Olympian
British Olympic medallists to miss out on honours
Mandarins vs Medallist: Who deserves honours?
Medallists lose out to mandarins
There have been moments when I came very close to sporting greatness: the great Yorkshire and England batsman Maurice Leyland saw me bat. Any boy born in Yorkshire could go to the indoor nets at Headingley to be looked at. Leyland glanced at me for a nanosecond and moved swiftly on.
I once marked the great Jackie Milburn. I was playing for the school team against the teachers. He arrived unannounced but instantly recognisable; he even coached us for a term. I say “marked” – I was right-half and he was inside-left. I just watched him really. He hit the bar with a shot from the half-way line.
And I have something in common with the cricketer Samit Patel. We have both been dropped for being too fat, he from England, me from my school team when the headmaster stood on the boundary and shouted: “That boy runs like a blancmange, I think I’ll call him Wobble.” O tempora! O mores!
The playing fields at my school were excellent, our teams were not. Occasionally we won a match but we couldn’t beat a good team, it was logically impossible: anyone who lost to us by definition had to be bad.
I have lined up with competitive players and against competitive players all my life, but competitiveness is simply not in my make-up. I try my best – that’s the joy of it – but I really don’t mind if I lose.
The dangerous legacy of this Olympics is that British youngsters have seen too many winners. It’s like watching Clint Eastwood or Bruce Willis blowing all opposition away. But it isn’t real life. Jess, Brad and Mo may well inspire a handful to become champions. But sport isn’t about taking gold. It isn’t even about physical fitness. It’s about taking pleasure and taking part.
--------------------------
Tom Chivers, unremittingly average at games, but tasted glory in the pool
I played rugby twice at school. Since I was six feet tall, bespectacled and weighed less than 11st, the teacher decided to put me in the second row, on the basis that that was where I would most efficiently be folded like origami by the mesomorphs around me.
Both times, I limped off bleeding and muddy, and after the second appearance – crushed under the weight of an 18st 14 year-old – I had to have a nostril cauterised with acid, to stem a ceaseless flow of blood.
I was not a naturally sporty kid. There were three types of children when it came to school sport, at least at my comp. There were those who looked forward to PE – the ones who stayed after school to play basketball, to whom things like Cruyff turns and overhead smashes came naturally, who had enviable hand-eye coordination and reaction times that you don’t have to measure in minutes. There were those who – whether because of obesity, incompetence or the underage smoker’s black lung – avoided it altogether, with a sick note or by slipping off for a cigarette. Then there was me.
I wasn’t so bad that it was embarrassing. I did all right on the shuttle runs, I wasn’t quite picked last at team sports, I occasionally hit a rounder or bowled somebody out. But I wasn’t very good.
That was OK, though, because you can enjoy sport without being good. You can enjoy watching the skills of your team-mates and opponents, you can enjoy working hard to put your limited abilities to best use. Sometimes you experience the other side of it, the glory: in my apotheosis, my most perfect moment, I won all the races in our Year 9 swimming gala. But usually, I was traipsing in seventh out of eight in the 400m, having agreed to run it for sports day because no one else would.
Where I was lucky was that our PE teacher appreciated my gawky enthusiasm. Seventeen years later, I treasure the memory of him saying: “You always have a go, don’t you?” after getting clouted around the court at squash. If he had been one of those who saved his encouragement for the best athletes, I’d have joined the smokers behind the gym.
Because we don’t need to encourage the best athletes. They will already be dancing through the defence on pointed toes, smiting tepid off-spin to the boundary, knocking passing shots beyond the reach of despairing opponents. The non-athletes will be doing extra maths, or skiving school to get a nose-piercing.
It’s those of us in the middle who need support: the not-brilliant, the ones who will never compete in the Olympics or even for the school; the ones who could go either way, who could end up never looking at a pair of trainers again.
Yes, back the elite, strive to be the best. But let’s not forget the mediocre as well.
--------------------------
Gillian Reynolds: our radio critic was a reluctant hockey player but became tennis captain
Gym was compulsory at my Liverpool city centre grammar school: twice a week in the school hall, window ladders round the walls, ropes looped up, vaulting horse and box stored away in a side room.
We had games twice a week too, one lesson in the yard plus a whole afternoon a week on our own field, 15 minutes on the bus then a 10‑minute walk away. We went there unsupervised, in pairs or groups (with stern instructions on what to do in the event of encountering flashers). If it was too snowy or wet, there was compulsory country dancing.
My first report for gym said “Gillian must try to be more courageous” – advice I ignored. Instead, I joined the cool crowd (you could tell us by the pleats in the crowns of our velour hats). We were not cool enough to bunk off games entirely. We were, however, highly competitive in our excuses to get out of them.
One wintry day it struck me that it would be less trouble to get out on to the frosty hockey field and actually play. I wasn’t brilliant there but it was warmer than hanging around the pavilion. I became, to my surprise, tough enough to line up with Hazel Stephenson and Dorothy Hollinghurst in the half backs, a scary sight. By the Upper Vs we were playing in the annual North of England Girls’ Schools championship at Whalley Range. We didn’t get beyond two matches, enough for Hazel and Dorothy to win full colours. I got half.
Encouraged, I took summer more seriously and tried harder at tennis. I had beautiful strokes but no idea of ball control. My service looked textbook. Unfortunately, its success rate was highly erratic. The games teacher took time with me, had patience which, considering she was the one who had given me that snarky gym report, was unexpected.
Eventually, I improved enough to play for the school team. In my last year, when there was no one else left, I was made captain. We didn’t win a single match but between the gym and the tennis court I had come into an
18-inch waist and learnt enough about top spin to chat to the champions at the boys’ school.
I went on playing tennis for years, and taught my sons. They all serve better than me. But whenever I have done anything well, at the back of my mind I am always Billie Jean King, aceing.
Hockey has changed so much since I was at school I couldn’t tell what was going on at the Olympics. Still, school games taught me teamwork as well as rules. To this day, on any committee, I know within 10 minutes whose team I will play for and which one I intend to smash.

