<<<<<<< HEAD
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570439/s/1cc14acb/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Clifestyle0C90A8710A80CLets0Ehave0Ea0Eboard0Emeeting0Bhtml/story01.htm
=======
>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
Let's have a board meeting
By Jake Wallis Simons
10:30PM GMT 18 Feb 2012
It is a universal truth that all Pathé newsreel films are charming. One of my favourites is a 1937 clip entitled “Do You Dart?”. It starts as one would expect, with a group of flat-capped men clustered around a dartboard in a pub. The scene that follows, however, takes one by surprise: a fashionable Thirties drawing room, full of slinkily clad women and dapper-looking men, all having a wizard wheeze with the things.
Darts, you see, used to be an upper-middle class parlour game (as well as traditional pub entertainment). Even royalty didn’t think it beneath them; in 1937, the same year as the Pathé clip was broadcast, the king and queen (later the Queen Mother) had a game at a social club in Slough. This prompted the Sunday Chronicle headline: “The queen has made the women of Britain darts-conscious”. Over the two years that followed, darts-playing pubs trebled.
At the beginning of this year, history repeated itself – sort of – when Zara Phillips and Mike Tindall made an appearance at the final of the PDC World Championships at Alexandra Palace. As the Telegraph’s Jim White noted, the main way in which the royalty stood out from the crowd was in their choice of drink. Whereas most tables were populated by hundreds of foam-smeared pint glasses (more than 250,000 pints of lager were consumed by patrons of generous appetites and proportions), the royal table was a forest of champagne flutes.
Zara Phillips is not the first modern royal to attend a major darts tournament. Last year Prince Harry made an appearance, and saw fit to give the 20st winner, Adrian Lewis, a bear hug. Even his elder brother, William, has been known to throw a move or two. Many people are starting to think that this game is migrating upwards.
According to Robert Holmes of the British Darts Organisation, the sport is increasingly popular with “City boys”. The newly formed City of London Darts Association is, he says, “full of them”. There is a Bank of England team and a Stock Exchange team. Furthermore, in this new climate of austerity chic, when traditional, cheap and folksy pursuits are cool, darts nights at home have become a feature of the trendsetters’ circuit.
Darts – now posh enough for the royal seal of approval
A right Royal affair
Favourite haunts of the hip darts set, says Holmes, include the Prince of Wales pub in Kennington, the Duke’s Head in Highgate, and Father Ted’s in Kilburn. But the centre of fashionable darts is undoubtedly the Porters’ Lodge Pub in the heart of the City, which boasts no fewer than eight boards. Later this year, the pub is hosting the first ever Bankers versus Stockbrokers Darts Cup.
“We get loads of city slickers in here,” says Rob Madigan, the pub manager. “They buy all the latest kit and try to look the part. But they’re hopeless. Their legs go up like sailors and the darts go straight in the wall.” Much of his time is spent coaching them.
One lunchtime, I pay a visit to the Porter’s Lodge to gauge the extent of this trend. The pub is bustling with young, suit-wearing men throwing darts. Most of them are slim, too, which is unusual for the game. To say that several look like Hugh Grant would admittedly be an exaggeration. But only a small one.
I strike up a conversation with a group of suave-looking chaps from Lloyd’s of London: two brokers, one underwriter and a trainee. True to form, the brokers are like cheeky rugby players, the underwriter is high-browed and serious, and the trainee is fresh faced and keen. The best player is called, believe it or not, Luke Sloan. Or, if you’re going by his darts nickname – which is printed on all his personal kit – he is the “Sloan Ranger”.
“There are definitely a lot more people playing now,” says the Ranger. “I’ve got a dart board up in my flat and six of us play regularly. It’s a social thing as much as anything.”
Jack Mann, the trainee, has recently emulated his senior colleague and put up a board too. “It’s cheaper than going to the pub,” he says, wryly. Richard Brown, a broker, bashfully admits that he has just bought his first set of darts. “You’ve got to have your own kit if you want to compete with your mates,” he explains.
Two things are conspicuously absent, however: women and champagne. “There’s only one darts drink: beer,” says Tim Traill, the underwriter. “Otherwise you’re not getting into the spirit of the thing.” That’s all very well, but is this really the high life?
“The champagne comes out in the evenings,” says Brown, “and so do the women. They like having a go at darts. But when we’re playing competitively, it’s usually just chaps.”
Before I leave, Rob Madigan, the pub manager, presents me with a clutch of pink-ended darts and proceeds to give me some tips. There are surprisingly few instructions. Basically, you need to stand sideways on, and move your arm without moving your body. That’s it. I throw one. He praises me for “not hitting the wall”.
“Do you know what the secret ingredient is?” asks Madigan. “Lots of practice.”
“Oh, no it isn’t,” says an investment banker standing at the bar. “It’s champagne.”
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
