Chelsea news: The pressure in on, admits Gary Cahill
By Matt Law
10:25AM GMT 16 Mar 2015
Comments
Gary Cahill has admitted he and his Chelsea team-mates are feeling the pressure in their bid to wrap up the Premier League title and need a convincing win to get back to their best.
Chelsea missed the chance to open an eight-point gap on second-placed Manchester City by drawing 1-1 with Southampton.
The result also meant manager Jose Mourinho’s men failed to fully bounce back from their Champions League elimination at the hands of Paris Saint-Germain.
Chelsea suffered disappointment at the hands of PSG (Getty images)
Chelsea have not won the Premier League title for five years and Cahill has confirmed the team are no longer playing with freedom as they attempt to get over the finishing line.
“We are desperate - desperate is not the right word - we are looking for the next convincing win, next win to get us back up and running,” said Cahill. “It’s not the end of the world. Manchester City dropped points and we picked up another point.
• Chelsea held by outstanding Southampton • Chelsea too reliant on Courtois... and other things we learnt
“The goal difference is good, so it’s far from the end of the world. But we are looking for the next result. Obviously, there was disappointment in the week. It’s hard to gather momentum coming into a game when it was disappointing just a few days ago, but I’m sure we will kick on.
Did you know Telegraph Sport has a ?

“It’s a massive opportunity for this season, everybody knows. Ten games left to go and we are in a fantastic position, and we need to bear that in mind. We should be going out playing with freedom and not feeling pressure.
“We should be going out enjoying (our football) and I think that comes with winning games and the next win, I’m sure, is just around the corner for us.”
Nemanja Matic was judged to have brought down Sadio Mané (Getty images)
Midfielder Oscar has been one of the players who has struggled to produce his best form in recent weeks and, on trying to win the title, the Brazilian added: “It’s a big step. Not just me, but everyone wants to win the Premier League.
“Southampton was a big game for us, but we don’t win. But we have one point and six points from Man City, and we have one game in hand. But we need to play better and go to Hull City next and win the game.”

