England manager Roy Hodgson reveals how he urged Arsenal to sign Danny Welbeck
By Jason Burt
10:30PM GMT 21 Mar 2015
Comments
Roy Hodgson has claimed that he told Arsène Wenger to sign Danny Welbeck from Manchester United. The England manager said his faith in the 24-year-old had been vindicated by the success of the £16 million deadline-day move from United last August.
"I speak to him very often," Hodgson said of Wenger. "We spoke of course before he signed him [Welbeck] and I was singing Danny's praises, so I'm delighted Arsene has seen that my judgment wasn't wrong and that he shares that judgment. We [England] like Danny very much. We've always shown faith in Danny." Hodgson said that Welbeck fell into the same "category" as young players such as Ross Barkley and Luke Shaw who have been kept in his squad even when they have not played regularly for their clubs. Young Lion: Welbeck scores for England against Switzerland (REX) "Many times he was selected by me when he wasn't actually playing for Manchester United," Hodgson said of Welbeck. "He's sometimes not even been on the bench and yet still we've selected him because we think he's got the qualities required. "And what he really needs now is the faith of his manager, which he's obviously got from Arsene, to get more games and then I think we'll see more and more performances from him that we've been lucky enough to see with England."
Hodgson said he would "like to think" that Welbeck had blossomed since his move. "He's played quite a lot of games for Arsenal if you compare it to the number of games he was playing at Manchester United. There's not many times he's played for England when I've been disappointed in him or his work-rate or his desire. But of course it would be great if he can get himself as one of the first names on the Arsenal team-sheet and play for them every week. That would be a bonus, certainly for him, and it won't do us any harm either. But we've got to be realistic." Revenge: Welbeck scored the goal that knocked his old club out of the FA Cup (AP)
Welbeck is one of the four strikers, five with Raheem Sterling, in Hodgson's squad to face Lithuania at Wembley in Friday's Euro 2016 qualifier and then Italy away in Turin in a friendly the following Tuesday. The England manager has also selected Harry Kane for the first time, but decided to keep Saido Berahino with the under-21s as he dismissed concerns that the West Bromwich Albion striker could opted to play for his the country of his birth, Burundi.
"When you are playing in the Premier League and are a recognised under-21 international and been in the senior squad, with respect to Burundi I'm not sure how important that would be to you," Hodgson said. "Certainly you wouldn't be going to any World Cups with Burundi as far as I know. I've never given it a thought." Much thought and debate, has, however, been put into Wayne Rooney closing in on Sir Bobby Charlton's scoring record of 49 goals for England. Rooney now has 46 goals and Hodgson said beating Charlton's record would be a greater achievement because goals are now harder to score in international football.
Friends now foes: Welbeck and Rooney shake hands (GETTY) "Fifty goals today is in my opinion harder than 50 goals in the 1950s, Sixties and Seventies," Hodgson claimed. "In the past a fixture like England-Estonia or England-Lithuania or England-Latvia you would be talking five to 10 goals probably. The way these teams play now it's hard to get one. "Having said that Bobby Charlton is and always will be regarded, certainly if not the best, certainly one of the very best we have ever produced, because he didn't just score goals. He did many other things as well. And of course what Bobby Charlton has, which no other English player of the current generation has, is a World Cup winner's medal."

