Lance Armstrong cover-up denied by UCI honorary president Hein Verbruggen in personal appeal to IOC elite
By Jacquelin Magnay and Simon Hart
8:02PM GMT 13 Feb 2013
Comments
Verbruggen, who ran the International Cycling Union (UCI) for 14 years and remains its honorary president, delivered the letters to International Olympic Committee president Jacques Rogge and 14 other Olympic executive board members by hand at the Lausanne Palace Hotel, where they have been holding a two-day meeting. Rogge and his colleagues woke on Wednesday to find the letters under their door.
Verbruggen wrote: “I have been frequently accused that, during my UCI presidency, my federation would not have been too serious in its anti-doping policy and that – in particular the Lance Armstrong case – the UCI and myself would have been involved in covering-up positive tests. Cover-ups never took place. Not only would this never have been allowed, but there simply was nothing to cover-up. Armstrong, nor his team-mates, never tested positive.”
Verburggen, himself an IOC member but not part of the executive board, was deeply critical of Wada and anti-doping officials in the US and France for their failure to expose Armstrong during his career.
Also on Wednesday, Michael Ashenden, a leading sport scientist claimed doping experts were only given nine of 38 blood tests provided by Armstrong during his Tour de France comeback years of 2009 and 2010 and questioned why the UCI failed to pass on all tests.
Ashenden said he and other international drugs scientists were not shown Armstrong’s suspicious results during the Tours of 2009 and 2010.
Lance was my mentor. I'm in shock
Hayward: courtroom sporting arena
USADA give Armstrong more time
Armstrong in criminal investigation
Armstrong to keep £7.7m bonuses
UCI hope to build bridges with Wada
The UCI claimed Ashenden does not understand the protocols of the testing process and says his concerns are unfounded.
Wada, meanwhile, is considering a new 'prohibited association’ rule that would make it a violation for athletes to work with anyone who has been convicted of criminal doping activity in the past eight years. The regulation would mean an athlete would face disciplinary action for associating with someone such as Victor Conte, who was jailed in 2005 for masterminding the Balco drug conspiracy.
Conte, who now campaigns against doping, continues to advise athletes on legal nutritional supplements and travelled to London for last summer’s Olympics to work with American boxer Marlen Esparza.
A revised Wada code is due to be published in November and the latest draft includes a new clause that would make such a relationship an offence.

