Liverpool vs Besiktas, Europa League: as it happened
By Charlie Eccleshare
10:08PM GMT 19 Feb 2015
- Liverpool 1 Besiktas 0, match report - Live football on TV: Your guide to all the action - Revealed: Your club's most under-rated player - Ibrahimovic: 20 most ridiculous things he's ever said

LIVERPOOL 1-0 BESIKTAS (FT)
22.15 That's it for tonight - thanks for joining, we'll be back on the weekend with all of the Premier League action.
22.13 And here is Chris Bascombe's match report from Anfield on what was an ultimately successful night for Liverpool.
Gerrard hits out at 'disrespectful' Balotelli
22.10 Stevie G also pays tribute to Ibe - "He was man of the match by a country mile."
22.06 Gerrard quite critical of Balotelli for taking the penalty after Henderson had been made the assigned taker before the match.
22.02 Captain on the night Jordan Henderson said: "We kept going, and deservedly got the goal again. Overall, we're very happy with the result." Henderson was asked about the penalty, which Balotelli took off him, with shades of the Mirallas incident at Everton. The midfielder said of the incident, which also saw Sturridge trying to take the spot-kick: "Mario felt confident to take the penalty and so I let him have it."

22.01 Well, that was hardly vintage stuff from Liverpool, but a very good result nonetheless. Besiktas came purely to defend, and though they were very well-organised, they were pretty limited as well, and it would be a surprise if they were able to go through now. If Rodgers' side score in Turkey, which you'd expect them to do, then Besiktas will need three, and it's hard to see where they would get those goals from. It's worth reiterating how good Jordan Ibe was tonight, and fittingly it was he who won the penalty. It's not clear yet if right wing-back is his best position - I suspect he'll end up playing further up the pitch - but what an exciting prospect he is for club and country.
Full-time! That's that - it finishes 1-0 to Liverpool.
90+3 min Sterling does really well to draw the foul from Franco on the edge of the box. Henderson takes the free-kick, but it's straight into the wall.
90+2 min Sterling and Sturridge link up well, but the former overhits his through ball and the chance goes.
90 min The sub Ozyakup does well to get himself a yard inside the Liverpool box, but Skrtel makes the block. Three minutes of added on time to be played...
87 min Besiktas very close to an equaliser but Franco can't quite get on the end of Kavlak's free-kick. All sorts of pushing and shoving going on in the area during that set-piece.
GOAL! LIVERPOOL 1-0 BESIKTAS (Balotelli pen 85') Slow run up, and he then sends the keeper the wrong way qith a low strike into the left-hand corner. Good pen.

84 min Penalty for Liverpool! Ibe is brought down by Motta, and the referee Szymon Marciniak points to the spot. Great work from Ibe to burst into the box and win the pen.
82 min A real waste for Liverpool - Sterling races clear from inside his own half, and plays in Sturridge, who makes a mess of his cross-cum-shot, and the ball evades Can and Balotelli who had raced forward hoping to finish the move off.
80 min Great defending from Balotelli of all people to nip in front of Ba and concede a corner. The resulting delivery is poor, and Liverpool can clear.
78 min Here we go - Sterling on for Lallana.
77 min Kurtulus booked for fouling Balotelli down the right - Henderson's resulting free-kick is headed over by Lovren.
75 min Ibe is the outlet for Liverpool once more, but Can's pass is overhit and the ball rolls away to safety.

73 min Sturridge trie shis luck from a free-kick about 20 yards out, but it's straight at Gonen via a deflection off Lallana's back.
72 min Besiktas change - Frei on for Shan.
71 min Ibe heavily involved once more, but he's crowded out on the edge of the box, and Besiktas can get it clear. Sums up their night a little bit - they just can't quite make it click thus far.
68 min Can does look to have pushed up into midfield, but Liverpoool are still labouring a bit to create anything. Lovren picks up a booking just after coming on, but scything down Sahan on the half-way line.
65 min Balotelli is instantly involved, as he wins a free-kick off Franco about 25 yards out from goal. The Italian takes it, and it's a decent delivery, but Gonen can gather with Can failing to get a touch right in front of him.
63 min A couple of Liverpool changes - Lovren on for Allen (Can will move into midfield), and Coutinho off for Balotelli. Coutinho has looked a little leggy tonight - hardly surprising given how much football he's played recently.
60 min Skrtel lays one back for Henderson on the edge of the box, but the midfielder drags his effort wide. Besiktas make a change meanwhile - Sosa replaced by Arsenal old boy Ozyakup. Must be emotional for Arsenal fans to see an old fans favourite back in the UK.
57 min Can continues his mini-crisis by bringing Ba down unnecessarily out wide, but Sosa wastes the free-kick and puts it over the bar with plenty of Besiktas players waiting in the middle for a cross.
54 min Besiktas get into a couple of really encouraging positions, but Sahan and then Ba can't make the most of the opportunities. Can played a really loose pass to gift Ba the ball on the edge of the box - luckily for the German, Skrtel came across to block the shot.

52 min Henderson is again involved, this time clipping a ball over to Sturridge, that the England striker can't quite bring down. The hosts are having a tough time breaking down Besiktas here - I wonder if one of Borini, Balotelli, Sterling or Lambert might come on soon.
49 min What a chance for Liverpool! Henderson does excellently down the right, and his cross is flapped at by Gonen straight to Lallana, who blazes over from about six yards bang in front of goal.
47 min Decent opening for Moreno at the back stick, but his volley is into the ground and boucnes wide. Another good spot from Henderson to pick him out.
46 min We're back underway at Anfield for the second half. No changes from either team.
21.02 Good first-half numbers from Ibe:
<noframe>Twitter: Squawka Football - Jordon Ibe's first-half by numbers vs. Besiktas: 4 successful take-ons 87% pass completion 3 chances created <a href="http://t.co/KruYegfsJO" target="_blank">http://t.co/KruYegfsJO</a></noframe>
20.51 A decent game this, if by no means a classic. Besiktas look well-organised in defence, and have carried a threat on the break through Tore and Ba. Ibe has been excellent so far, and the image below of him talking on Besiktas left-back Motta more or less sums up the first-half.

Peep, peep! That's half-time.
45 min Gulum picks up the first booking of the night for bringing down Moreno, which means he'll be suspended for the second leg. Henderson takes the free-kick from about 25 yards - Gunen was rooted to the spot, but the Reds vice-captain puts it just wide.
44 min Ooh, cheeky attempt from Henderson, as he attempts a Zola against Norwich-esque volley from Coutinho's corner, but he can't quite get his effort on target.
42 min Ibe's cross is blocked by Motta for a corner. Henderson takes it, and after Tore's clearance is poor, Moreno smashes a shot left footed from all of 30 yards that Gonen does well to tip over. Great effort.
40 min The livewire Ibe is brought down just outside the box by Motta, before Sturridge sends the resulting free-kick over the bar. Jordan Ibe...such potential, very exciting for club and country.
39 min Henderson's low corner isn't great, but Besiktas make a meal of clearing it. No harm done in the end as Sturridge's shot is blocked.
38 min Ibe and Lallana work a good two-on-one on Motta, but the wing-back makes a mess of his pass, and Besiktas get away with it.
35 min Ba so nearly does it again at Anfield! he's through on goal, but elects to shoot early from the edge of the box, and Mignolet pushes it around the post.
34 min Another Ibe break leads to Lallana working himself a yard in the box, but his left-footed shot is blocked.
32 min Ooh, Besiktas come very close - Sosa whips in a corner left-footed, and Kavlak's header is just wide of the near post. Sosa's delivery has been very good at set-pieces.
31 min Bit of a nervy moment for Liverpool, as Sosa's free-kick is headed back across goal by Franco, before Skrtel is able to hack it away.
30 min Impressive discipline from the visitors so far - they're sitting deep, and swarming around the likes of Sturridge and Coutinho whenever they get on the ball.

27 min Great run from Tore down the right wins a corner for Besiktas, which Sosa delivers to Gulum, who puts his half-volley high and wide.
25 min Coutinho with some lovely feet finds a yard of space, and plays in Moreno with a beautiful through ball. But up goes the linesman's flag for offside (erroneously).
23 min Ibe involved once more, but after beating Motta, the youngster puts too much on his cross and it evades everyone.
20 min Good spot from Henderson to pick out Ibe's run down the inisde right channel, but the pass is just overhit, and it runs away for a goal-kick.
19 min Besiktas look pretty comfortable at the moment, with Liverpool struggling a little to create anything or get in behind.
16 min Ibe getting some more joy down the right, but eventually Sahan stops him in his tracks. Incidentally the Besiktas fans are massively outsinging their Liverpool counterparts, if you're interested in that sort of thing.
13 min Coutinho showing some lovely touches in the early stages, but he can't quite get clear of the Besiktas defenders after some excellent ball juggling on the half-way line. Kavlak than has a shot for the visitors from the edge of the box that is dreadful and dribbles wide.

11 min Clive Tyldesley is still wittering.
10 min A fan has ran on the pitch. I repeat a fan has just ran on the pitch. Clive Tyldesley is wittering on about Liverpool's European history to make up for the awkwardness.
8 min Jordan Ibe looks really lively in the right wing-back role - he's made a few forward bursts already, and the visitors will have their work cut out keeping him quiet.
7 min William Kalua from Malawi had this to say about Brendan Rodgers' side...
Liverpool will probably win the FA cup, they are the only form side left in the competition. Compared to last season, they haven't reached the height but it's looking promising of late.
5 min Sturrudge looks in the mood tonight, and he flies down the right again, but Coutinho's shot is blocked after the England striker lays it back to him.
4 min Excellent work from Sturridge to create a chance for himself, but he should probably have squared it rather than go for goal, and Gonen can make the save.
3 min Customary mention of the 'great noise' on these European nights at Anfield.
20.05 - kick-off! We're underway - and a reminder of the teams for this evening...
Liverpool: Mignolet, Can, Skrtel, Sakho, Ibe, Henderson, Allen, Moreno, Coutinho, Lallana, Sturridge
Besiktas: Gonen, Kurtulus, Franco, Gulum, Motta, Hutchinson, Kavlak, Tore, Sosa, Sahan, Ba
19.55 Just 10 minutes to go until kick-off - such a shame Gerrard is in the studio rather than on the pitch to confront his Demba Ba demons.
19.43 And here's some statistcial fun to get us in the mood for tonight:
• Liverpool are unbeaten in five home matches against Turkish sides (W4 D1).
• Besiktas have already taken on English opponents this season, drawing 1-1 away and winning 1-0 at home against Tottenham Hotspur FC in the UEFA Europa League group stage and losing 1-0 on aggregate to Arsenal FC in the UEFA Champions League play-offs.
• Liverpool have not won in their last five European games (D2 L3), and went out to FC Zenit (on away goals) in their last round of 32 tie in 2012/13.
19.23 Perhaps ever so slighty more relevant (though not much), you may recall Liverpool hammering Besiktas 8-0 in the Champions League back in November 2007. Crouch got two that day, and Benayoun got a hat-trick. Let;s relive that one shall we...

19.19 Here's an omen for you: There's a big Eastenders whodunnit tonight; when Phil Mitchell was shot in 2001, Liverpool drew 0-0 with Barcelona at the Nou Camp in the Uefa Cup. Will that be significant tonight?
19.08 As promised, here is the Besiktas line-up
Besiktas XI to play Liverpool: Gonen, Kurtulus, Franco, Gulum, Motta, Hutchinson, Kavlak, Tore, Sosa, Sahan, Ba
Subs: Fidayeo, Pektemek, Ozyakup, Arslan, Uysal, Koyunlu, Opare
18.58 So Sturridge starts, and Sterling is on the bench in what is a strong looking Liverpool lineup. The Besiktas team isn't out yet, as soon as it is, I'll let you know. I promise.
18.55 Hello, the team news is coming through.
Liverpool XI to play Besiktas: Mignolet, Can, Skrtel, Sakho, Ibe, Henderson, Allen, Moreno, Coutinho, Lallana, Sturridge
Subs: Lovren, Lambert, Manquillo, Borini, Balotelli, Sterling, Ward
Did you know Telegraph Sport has a ?
Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers insists Demba Ba's return to Anfield, 10 months after he ruined the club's Premier League title dream, will not stir up bad memories.
In April last year Ba, then a Chelsea player, capitalised on a slip by Steven Gerrard to race through and score the crucial opening goal at Anfield.
Chelsea, who produced a masterclass of defending that day, went on to win 2-0 and deliver a fatal blow to Liverpool's hopes of ending their long, barren run without a championship.
Ba arrives back on Merseyside as the spearhead of a Besiktas team who are currently top of the Turkish Super Lig, for a Europa League last-32 first-leg tie.
Rodgers accepted Ba, who has scored 13 in 17 league matches and five in four in European games, is a threat but stressed they were only concerned with the present day and now what the Senegal international had done in the past.
"It won't stimulate any bad memories for me," said Rodgers. "At the time (last April) he scored a goal, which was a good goal, but he has scored many good goals in his career.
"We just see him as a threat that we will pay respect to but nothing more than that.
"He had a very good period here in England, he is a wonderful player, who has good touch and technique and he scores goals. He has gone to Besiktas and done well."
The Turkish side have not lost in the Europa League this season, drawing away at Tottenham but beating them in the home leg, while they lost 1-0 to Arsenal over two legs in a Champions League qualifier at the start of the season.
Having dropped down from the Champions League before Christmas, Rodgers will at least have a new player to call on for European matches in Daniel Sturridge, who has returned to action after a thigh injury in August ruled him out for five months.
Gerrard will be missing with a hamstring problem, while winger Lazar Markovic begins a four-match suspension imposed for his dismissal against Basle in their last Champions League match.
Join Charlie Eccleshare from 7pm for all the build-up and team news

