Liverpool 1 Besiktas 0, match report: Mario Balotelli spot on to break Turkish resistance in Europa League first leg
By Chris Bascombe
9:45PM GMT 19 Feb 2015
Comments
Mario Balotelli could be on a mission to relegate the ‘Miracle of Istanbul’ to the second greatest Liverpool comeback of all time.
Should the Italian save and ignite his Anfield career, Lazarus himself will be calling the striker for tips, but despite the latest controversy it has been an encouraging fortnight for the charismatic Italian.
He came off the bench to strike what could prove a pivotal winner against Besiktas, giving Brendan Rodgers’ side a slender lead to take to Turkey – the scene of that memorable Champions League comeback ten years ago – when the sides meet in the second leg of their Europe League tie next week.
Typically, Balotelli’s contribution – an 85th minute penalty – was not without contention. He defied the orders of his acting captain, Jordan Henderson, to grab the match ball before confidently tucking it past keeper Cenk Gonen at The Kop end.
Henderson looked unimpressed by the mutiny and there was significant admonishment from Steven Gerrard in his role as a TV pundit. There was little elation on the touchline from Brendan Rodgers, too, although the Liverpool manager considered the end product more important as he played down the incident. The finish was impressive enough, the art of scoring seemingly preventing further repercussions. As Kevin Mirallas discovered to his cost for Everton when he recently assumed penalty-taking status against club instructions, the one thing you can not do in such circumstances is miss.
Balotelli was right to take penalty, says Rodgers
Five things we learned from Liverpool's win
Gerrard hits out at 'disrespectful' Balotelli
Liverpool v Besiktas: as it happened
The greater good may serve Balotelli’s career. After scoring the late winner in his last Anfield appearance against Spurs, and changing the momentum of the weekend’s FA Cup tie at Crystal Palace, these are heady days for the Italian.
“The penny has dropped,” was how Rodgers put it a few days ago. It’s more like £16 million worth of goalscorer belatedly falling into place.
Liverpool needed Balotelli to shift the momentum as Besiktas showed their pedigree, certainly posing more problems than recent Premier League opponents.
Slaven Bilic, who once went a full month without being linked with the managerial job at West Ham, displayed his coaching credentials once again. His side was expertly organised in defence and posed enough threat upfront to ensure this European night gave Rodgers as much to ponder as those Champions League outings.
Besiktas last visit to Anfield ended in an 8-0 defeat and suspicion of match fixing (there was a UEFA investigation following that 2007 fixture). If that was the blackest of nights for the Turks, it was clear from the early stages here this game would bear no resemblance.
Inevitably, Demba Ba was threatening The Kop. There was a certain irony this was the first Anfield fixture this season when Ba’s name could not be heard in this stadium. His goal for Chelsea in the climax to last season’s title race has been celebrated in the opposition stand on a weekly basis and he should have added another to his Merseyside portfolio.
Olcay Sahan piercing through ball sent Ba into a one-on-one with Simon Mignolet in what seemed a repeat of the strike that caused Liverpool such heartbreak. This time Ba fluffed his lines, although credit the Belgian for an excellent save, pushing the ball behind for a corner.
Veli Kavlak had also gone close from a corner as Besiktas proved there was more to their game than resistance, while Liverpool were increasingly looking for the spectacular to break through.
Alberto Moreno struck from 30 yards, demanding Gonen make a fingertip save, and Henderson was inches wide from a free kick with the goalkeeper opting to watch.
There was a problem to solve for the Liverpool manager. His side’s passing was neat but needed more tempo and the greater urgency was apparent at the start of the second half when Lallana should have put his side ahead. Gonen, deputising for injured first choice keeper Tolga Zengin, fumbled Henderson’s cross and Lallana had the seemingly easy task of finding an empty net. In going for power he blasted over the crossbar.
Liverpool improved when Emre Can was moved into midfield from the back four, and Balotelli looked lively as soon as he was introduced for the last 25 minutes.
He is finally starting to show some of the ability that has been notorious only by its absence for most of the season, his confidence no doubt buoyed by his more significant contribution.
Although he stroked home the penalty, he would acknowledge it was the player who won it who deserved most congratulation.
Jordon Ibe carried the threat to the Turk from the first whistle, his directness and dribbling ability continuously the most likely source of Liverpool success.
With five minutes left, Ibe provoked Ramon Motta into a reckless challenge and the debate about who should convert the penalty began.
Henderson was visibly unhappy with his team mate but Mario and Liverpool would not be denied.
The last fortnight may not be enough to convince everyone this represents the start of what will be a long Liverpool career for Balotelli, but it’s a serious improvement on those ineffective early performances that appeared to be little more than the beginning of the end.
Did you know Telegraph Sport has a ?


