Henrik Stenson turns up the heat on Rory McIlroy at DP World Tour Championship in Dubai
By James Corrigan, Golf Correspondent, in Dubai
9:45PM GMT 21 Nov 2014
Comments
Considering Henrik Stenson’s nationality, perhaps we should be talking about “Norses for courses” rather than “horses for courses”, but, whatever, Rory McIlroy is determined not to allow this golfing thoroughbred to take too big an advantage on a track that so obviously suits the Swede.
While McIlroy was comparatively flat in his 70, which took his figures here at the Earth course to 82-under for 22 rounds, Stenson was supreme in a 66 that gave him a two-shot advantage over a group including the world No 1, and took his own stats here to 50-under for his past 10 rounds and 35-under for his past six. “Henrik’s very comfortable on this course,” McIlroy said. “I can’t let him get too far ahead tomorrow. I have to get off to a fast start and put a bit of pressure on him.”
It would help if McIlroy was in Stenson’s company to make it a shoot-out between the past two winners of the DP World Tour Championship, but the Englishman Danny Willett secured the third berth in the grouping, courtesy of being first in the clubhouse on eight-under – the same score as McIlroy – with a 68. Scotsman Richie Ramsey completes the final group.
McIlroy stood on the tee of the par-five 18th aiming for birdie to haul himself to nine-under, but in the event did well to escape with a par after finding the water with his drive. “I thought I’d hit a good one,” he said.
If that baffled him then it was nothing to the bemusement he felt when his three-wood from the middle of the fairway squirted left, not more than five feet off the ground. “It was a fat, low, duck-hook runner that was not intentional,” Mcilroy said. “I just didn't quite have it. today. I guess you're going to get rounds like that when you're coming back from a little bit of a layoff. I grinded out a score which was the main thing.”
McIlroy sets relentless pace on return
Poulter eyes world No 2 spot
Tiger's sense of humour failure was utterly pathetic
McIlroy's Masters focus under threat
The problem for McIlroy, Willett and Ramsay, is that Stenson reckons he is operating “only at about six or seven out of 10”. And on the 12th he downgraded this assessment to “two out of 10”. “I hit the wall at that point,” Stenson said. “I’d ran out of steam. It was difficult mentally from there. I had to focus hard and drag myself over the line.”
He did so quite successfully, birdieing three of those last six and knows that a win here will earn him second place in the Race To Dubai - which McIlroy already has wrapped up - and could hurtle him to second in the world rankings. “There’s a lot to play for,” Stenson said.
As there is for Shane Lowry, the Irishman who needs to stay in the top 10 to take him into the top 50 who will earn a Masters berth at the end of the year. Playing with countryman McIlroy, Lowry’s 71 for a seven-under halfway total owed plenty to his first hole-in-one on the European Tour. It came on the 183-yard 13th with a six-iron.

