Rory McIlroy will not let Horizon court case distract him as he aims to end best season in style in Dubai
By James Corrigan, Golf Correspondent
10:07AM GMT 18 Nov 2014
Comments
Rory McIlroy is determined that the upcoming multi-million pound court case with his former management company - which required him to pull out of two tournaments last month - will not affect his mission to finish off the best season of his career in style.
The Ulsterman has already wrapped up the Race To Dubai money-list title going into this, the final week of the European Tour season. But despite not having played competitively for six weeks and despite having to skip the BMW Masters and WGC HSBC Champions, both in Shanghai, "to prepare for the trial over my legal dispute with Horizon", McIlroy believes he can shrug off the rust and distraction to win his fifth title of the campaign.
"It's been okay," McIlroy said, referring to the balancing act of spending as much time on the range as in lawyers' offices. "The last week or so, I really put my head down and focused on my golf and everything like that. I've actually felt like I've had a really good little bit of preparation coming into this event. Hopefully, I've done enough work to be ready for Thursday."
McIlroy was assured of winning his second Harry Vardon Trophy in there years when neither Sergio Garcia, Jamie Donaldson or Marcel Siem could win last week in Turkey. So as well as two majors, a WGC event, the PGA at Wentworth and the US money list, McIlroy has yet another piece of silverware to add to his ever-increasing collection. However, the world No 1 wants more and has his eye firmly set on the DP World Tour Championship, featuring the top 60 players on the Tour's order of merit.
"It would be nice to pick up two trophies on Sunday and not just one," McIlroy said. "I'm still very motivated to go out there this week and perform well. I'm comfortable on this golf course. I've played well here, basically every year.
McIlroy wins Race to Dubai
Poulter's error keeps the field open
Poulter rides storm to move three clear in Turkey
Johnson: Drugs, affairs and a shameful silence
"It would be good to cap off the season with another win here. And I feel like I'm probably a little fresher than most of the guys, as well. I think there's a few jaded minds and bodies getting off that plane from Turkey the other night. Hopefully, I can use that to my advantage."
McIlroy will close out his remarkable year at next week's Australian Open, before having seven weeks off until he kicks off 2015 in Abu Dhabi. The court case with Horizon - which has lasted more than a year and centres around an argument about the scale of commissions on a $100m (£64m) Nike deal - is due to take place in February. Two months later, at the Masters, McIlroy will attempt to become just the sixth player to win the career grand slam and concerns have been raised that the legal action will affect his shot at history.
Meanwhile, McIlroy confirmed that Rickie Fowler has accepted his invitation to play in the Irish Open in May. McIlroy is promoting the event at Royal County Down.

