http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/668943/s/42b1077f/sc/7/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Cengland0C113689640CDanny0ECare0Emust0Ebe0Eallowed0Eto0Erun0Ethe0Eshow0Eat0Ethe0ESix0ENations0ENick0EEvans0Etells0EEngland0Bhtml/story01.htm
Danny Care must be allowed to run the show at the Six Nations, Nick Evans tells England
By Daniel Schofield, at Stade Pierre Antoine
11:14PM GMT 25 Jan 2015
Comments
Nick Evans has urged England to let his Harlequins half-back partner Danny Care off the leash during the Six Nations.
The Kiwi fly-half was reunited with Care on Saturday after a month out with injury and together they orchestrated a seven-try destruction of an admittedly ragged Castres outfit, though victory was rendered irrelevant by Wasps’ draw against Leinster.
Care was dropped by England after a pair of disappointing performances against New Zealand and South Africa in the autumn, yet Evans believes that his regression was the result of being placed in a tactical straitjacket.
“England will benefit from his ambition if they let them play that way,” Evans said. “I felt – and this is just me personally – that in the autumn internationals they asked him to do a job that’s not Danny Care’s job. He’s not a box kicker.
He will do it, but he’s all about br­inging that tempo and that spark to the game.
Farrell serious England doubt
Parling adds to injury crisis
Hartley's England place is safe
Parling out for 'three to four weeks'
“He’s a game changer. As long as England allow him to do his job then you will get the best out of Danny Care. Put the shackles on him and tell him that he needs to kick more, then you probably won’t get the best out of him.”
Care was a live wire throughout against Castres, scoring one try and creating several more by setting a tempo that Castres struggled to live with. His tendency to tap and go does not always pay off.
Last week against Wasps, Harlequins turned down several shots at goal in the 23-3 defeat that ultimately cost them a chance of progressing to the quarter-finals but for Evans it is live by the sword, die by the sword.
“Last week, yeah, there were a few times where in hindsight you can look back and say it was not the right decision,” Evans said. “Today he did [tap and go] and the result put us in a position to score tries.”
