Danny Cipriani to stay at Sale after his England call-up
By Daniel Schofield
8:04PM GMT 23 Jan 2015
Comments
Danny Cipriani is ready to reject a big-money move to European champions Toulon and commit his future to Sale following his call-up to the England training squad for the Six Nations opener against Wales.
Steve Diamond, the Sale director of rugby, says that the fly half is at the “crossing the T’s and dotting the I’s” stage of signing a new contract at the A J Bell Stadium. Critical to his decision was his inclusion in the 34-man squad for the RBS Six Nations match against Wales on Feb 6.
Had the 27-year-old had been overlooked then there would have been little Sale could have done to persuade him to stay in the face of the glamour and money that Toulon could offer. Yet with the carrot of international selection still being dangled before the World Cup, Cipriani is prepared to stay put, even if he is fourth in line for the No 10 shirt behind George Ford, Owen Farrell and Stephen Myler.
“It is not signed on the dotted line yet, but it will be over the next three to four days,” Diamond told Telegraph Sport. “We are very close to agreeing terms as we speak. We are just crossing the T’s and dotting the I’s over Danny’s career at Sale.
“I have confirmed to him that we are ambitious and want to be more than a top-six side over the next few years and he believes in that, believes in what we are doing and the crowds are building as we want them to. There’s a lot of conjecture about what other clubs spend, but what we spend is linked to what comes through the gate. If we can continue to get 8,500 and 10,000 crowds then we can be ambitious as the rest and that’s what Danny wanted to hear.
Cipriani here to stay, says Lancaster
Cipriani 'has the X-factor'
At last - Lancaster embraces a maverick
Cipriani and Easter 'could play against Wales'
“He loves living in the Manchester. Danny is not far off a model professional. He came with a lot of baggage and it took him six months to settle down but now he loves the area. We are very confident he will stay.
“I think I would advise him to do that [move to Toulon] in three years’ time. He has got a lot of rugby in him and he will be a success overseas, but it is not all about money with Danny. He is a good kid. To a certain extent it is good to be a big fish in a small pond rather than joining Toulon where you are a Harlem Globetrotter.”
Diamond’s confidence is not matched by other sources close to Cipriani, but the England call has swung momentum Sale’s way and a definitive decision will be taken in the next fortnight. For now his focus is on trying to work his way up the pecking order when England gather at Pennyhill Park following the conclusion of this weekend’s round of European matches.
Cipriani’s last appearance and only start in the Six Nations came in 2008 when he orchestrated a 33-10 victory against Ireland. He returned to the England set-up last summer on the tour to New Zealand, making two Test appearances as a replacement.
His chances of being named in the match-day squad remain slim, but Diamond believes he offers a unique skill set. “He and Ford are similar, but I think he is defensively better than George Ford,” Diamond said. “Owen is different. He is more of a Rob Andrew type player from my days compared to a Stuart Barnes. What Danny has with a dominant pack in front of him and good service is the ability to do things that none of the others can do.
“What he’s done is get himself in the position of getting in the main squad and then anything can happen. He has definitely gone up the pecking order because he has forced his way in. It shows the coaches are liberal minded when it comes to picking on form. All he needs to do is continue in the same vein. He does not have to do anything different – he can’t work any harder, he can’t practice much longer than he already is.”
Gavin Henson, the former Wales international, is to join Championship side Bristol from Premiership club Bath at the end of the season. The 32-year-old, who has 33 caps, has spent two seasons at Bath. Bristol will be his ninth professional club.

