Davis Cup: James Ward is gunning for another American upset
By Simon Briggs, Tennis Correspondent
9:08PM GMT 05 Mar 2015
Comments
Asked what walk-on music he fancied for Friday evening’s Davis Cup meeting with John Isner, the British No 2 James Ward thought for a moment and then quipped: “Maybe 1-0 to the Arsenal?”
Ward’s footballing obsession dates back to his early years, when he would decamp to Highbury every other Saturday afternoon with his father Jim, the driver of a London taxi.
Even now he admits that he would have preferred to emulate his closest childhood friend Johnnie Jackson – now the captain of Charlton Athletic – by spending his career chasing leather rather than yellow fur.


Murray will lead Davis Cup charge
Murray reignites Scottish pride for Davis Cup
Bartoli fuels talk of comeback
But instead Ward grew up to be the best tennis player England has produced since Martin Lee a decade earlier.
Perhaps it is appropriate, given his continuing passion for a team sport, that his finest performances have come not on the lonely road of individual tournament play, but in the collaborative cauldron of the Davis Cup.
“The two biggest passions in my life are Arsenal and playing for my country,” said Ward on Thursday. “I don’t know what it is about the Davis Cup that brings out the best in me. It is obviously a bit different playing in a team to playing on your own.
“I always enjoy these weeks and some of my best results have come during these times, so hopefully it happens this weekend.”
This is a big moment for Ward, whose surprise win over Sam Querrey, a former world No 17, in San Diego a year ago was the turning point in what turned out to be Great Britain’s first World Group victory since 1986. He has a knack for pulling off the Davis Cup upset when his captain Leon Smith most needs it; and there could hardly be a better time than Friday.
It is revealing that Ward’s coach, Darren Tandy, flew in on Thursday after the 28-hour flight from Perth – the Australian Perth, that is – to Glasgow.
It is not so much that Tandy’s technical skills are required, for Davis Cup etiquette demands that Smith takes charge of every training session.
Rather, he hopes to learn what it is about Team GB that inspires Ward, and how some of that energy can be harnessed during the rest of the year.
“I’m interested in how James prepares mentally and physically at the Davis Cup,” said Tandy, who only started working regularly with Ward last summer, but has already overseen a significant climb to the brink of the world’s top 100.
“He seems to relish the press coverage, the atmosphere and the attention, judging by the way he lifts his level.
“To my mind, it’s a good thing that he enjoys the buzz of the big stage, because the aim is to be playing regularly in Masters 1000 and ATP 500 events.
“But clearly to get there you have to be more consistent, which means averaging 40 or 50 ATP points every week, rather than 20 or 30 as he is doing at the moment. If we achieve that, we can cut his ranking [which now stands at No 111] by about half.”
Ward’s story fits the outsider pattern that so often seems to create the biggest tennis talents.
Rather than being born into a cosy, suburban home with family membership at the local rackets club, he and Jackson were young scamps-around-town who used to vault the fences on a couple of little-used tarmac courts just off London’s Euston Road.
“It can be quite an edgy area,” he has said of his old haunts, “and you have to have your wits about you.”
Like his friend and training partner Andy Murray – whom he has indoctrinated to such an extent that Murray now follows Arsenal as well – Ward went to Spain as a teenager, training at an academy just outside Valencia, set up by former French Open champion Juan Carlos Ferrero.
His father had to redouble his efforts in the black cab to pay the bills, and that sense of self-sufficiency has stayed with Ward. Even now, he funds Tandy himself rather than relying on a coach provided by the Lawn Tennis Association.
Their work together has extended far beyond forehands and backhands and into the realm of philosophy. Tandy emphasises the importance of “playing for enjoyment, because you love the game”, and suggests that Ward should “let the results take care of themselves”.
This approach was certainly evident the last time Ward played Isner, although the situation was very different: an exhibition match at Kooyong’s leafy Country Club in Melbourne.
On that occasion, Ward chuckled every time the 6ft 10in Isner produced one of his unreturnable serves, which come down from an even steeper angle than a Curtly Ambrose bouncer.
But he never lost his cool, and eventually finished the stronger as he closed out a 3-6, 7-6, 6-2 upset over the world No 20.
“I’m sure tomorrow’s a bit different with nerves, a different sort of occasion,” said Ward on Thursday. “But I’ll try and use a little bit of the experience I got. It’s not fun to return John’s serve, because you see a lot of them going past you, but you’ve got to try and make the most of the opportunities and create as much as you can.”
Ward will be second on court on Friday after an opening match that should – unless something very unexpected happens – deliver a comfortable win for Murray over second-string American Donald Young.
The perfect scenario would see Ward battle past Isner again, and thus build on what his fellow football fan had achieved earlier in the day.
Should everything go to plan, the home fans could plausibly find themselves chanting “2-0 to the Arsenal” on their way to the nearest pub.

