The Best All-Natural Frozen Football Snacks (TASTE TEST)
In the world of frozen snacks, some score a touchdown and others are sacked harder than Joe Theismann. Now that football season is here, we don't want you to disappoint your ravenous game-watching friends, so we're here to help you separate the good from the bad in the world of gameday snacks.
Being food editors, we tend to go a little overboard -- caramelized onion dip, grilled sliders, fondue pots, all from scratch -- but we know what's really going on in the rest of America. In the land where food snobs don't prevail, people want convenience. They want things frozen, and they want them microwaved. Well, this one's for you guys.
We rounded up a collection of all-natural, frozen game-time snacks that are meant for your microwave. Though it was tempting to include oven-baked snacks like mozzarella sticks and samosas, comparing microwaved and oven-baked food is like entering Honey Boo Boo as a contestant in the Miss Universe pageant. It's just not fair.
You may be wondering what "all-natural" means. It turns out, so is the rest of the world. Though there's no legal definition of "all-natural," the term is used in food labeling to imply that it's minimally processed and doesn't contain manufactured ingredients. There aren't too many standards enforcing this label, but hey, we'll take it.
We averaged the votes of our tasters, helping you figure out which brands are worth buying and which brands you should avoid at ALL COSTS.
Take a look at the slideshow below for the results, and let us know what you think! Have any others to recommend? Give us a holler.
As always, this taste test is in no way sponsored or influenced by the brands included.
Comments: "I could eat this like soup." "Yum. I want more!" "You can't screw up spinach dip." "For a frozen dip, this is pretty great."
Comments: "Love. This is love." "That's a great pretzel, piled high with all the toppings." "Soft, tangy, spicy."
Comments: "Actually tastes like non-microwaved food?" "Spicy and flavorful!" "Really not bad! The corn is a nice touch."
Comments: "It's an okay taquito, but I'm missing the meat." "Ok, I could eat a lot of these. Not exciting, but they'd do the job." "Pleasantly spicy."
Comments: "This is a good basic pizza roll." "Decent, but needs a little more filling." "They don't look exciting, but everyone loves pizza pockets." "Hot, these are perfect. Cold, they suck."
Comments: "As far as microwaved pizza goes, this is okay." "The sauce saves it." "Sauce is nice and tangy, but the dough tastes like pita."
Comments: "The flavor is great, but is this fake cheese?" "It would be pretty satisfying with some hot sauce." "Hey green chile, Love you. This is unimpeachable." "This just tastes like flavorless sponge." "So dry! Needs condiments."
Comments: "These actually have real chicken in them. It's sad that I'm surprised by that." "A little dry, but sauce would make them great." "Spicy, with a decent crunch, and not processed-tasting." "Not bad!"
Comments: "Dry. So, so dry." "There's nothing here, and it's spongy." "Flavorful, but mystery-meatish." "I like the filling but the shell is a bit of a mess."
Comments: "Cardboard. Not cardboard-like, but actually cardboard." "Give me salt! Give me flavor!" "Dry, leathery and bland." "The inside looks like tuna fish!" "Shoe leather?"
Comments: "Weirdly, not as bad as I'd expect tofu ribs to taste." "Tofu with spaghetti sauce: NOT ribs." "This is a sauce-covered sponge." "Spongy, but surprisingly not bad for tofu."
Comments: "So much bounce to the ounce. So rubbery, like a Spaldeen." "Tastes like the driest corn dog EVER." "I like the flavor, but it's just way too dry and spongy."
Note: See that box? Looks like there are full sliders in there, right? Nope. All you get are six sad, gray patties. No buns included. Comments: "NEVER! EVER!" "Too terrifying. I normally wouldn't even try these." "Tastes like cat food, and looks like it too. Words can't describe." "This is wet newspaper and melted plastic, right?"
Want to read more from HuffPost Taste? Follow us on , , and .
This story appears in Issue 71 of our weekly iPad magazine, Huffington, available Friday, Oct. 18 in the iTunes App store.

