Football Snacks: The Easiest Recipe
We're really into football foods. When The Super Bowl comes around, we do not cut any corners when it comes to the snacks. We marinade and fry chicken wings. We top epic piles of nachos. We even make pounds of queso. Football-watching snacks are something we take very seriously. But we know that there are times when there just isn't time to build snackadiums and that's why we love football pizza.
Football pizza is nothing more than a cheese pizza topped with pepperoni pizza in the shape of a football. (There's even melted cheese on top of the pepperoni pizza made to look like the laces.) It's easy to make -- anyone can do it. It takes no more than a few minutes to prep -- so long as you're starting with an already prepared cheese pizza. And it's pizza, so everyone is going to love it. For such a simple dish, it's got a lot going for it.
We have the fine folks at Babble to thank for bringing this simple recipe to our attention. Get their instructions for this quick recipe.
Want to read more from HuffPost Taste? Follow us on , , and .
Get more football snack ideas.
Get the Easy Nachos With Fontina Queso + Candied Jalapeños recipe by How Sweet It Is
Get the Parmesan Ranch Snack Mix recipe by Averie Cooks
Get the French Poodles recipe by thirschfield via Food52
Get the Soft Buttery One Hour Pretzels recipe by Averie Cooks
Get the Hot and Melty Oven Baked Ham and Swiss Sandwiches recipe by Buns in my Oven
Get the Savory Roasted Red Pepper + Parm Snack Bread recipe by How Sweet It Is
Get the Sweet and Salty Banana Chips recipe by A Beautiful Mess
Get the Roast Chickpeas recipe by How Sweet It Is
Get the Marinated Olives And Feta recipe by A Beautiful Mess
Get the Southwestern Spiced Sweet Potato Fries recipe by TasteFood
Get the Buttery Toasted Captain Crunchies recipe by Averie Cooks
Get the Mexican Lime Jerky recipe
Get the Scallion Pancakes recipe by mrslarkin via Food52
Get the Rosemary Chipotle Roasted Almonds recipe by Averie Cooks
Get the Spinach and Feta Hand Pies recipe by Foodiecrush
Get the Easy Cheesy Whole Wheat Crackers recipe by How Sweet It Is
Get the Brussels Sprout Chips recipe by A Beautiful Mess
Get the Steamed Gyoza recipe by ourlastsupper via Food52
Get the Pumpkin Gruyere Gougeres recipe by Foodiecrush
Get the 10 Minute Parmesan and Mustard Pinwheels recipe by merrill via Food52
Get the Kale Chips recipe by Pip & Ebby
Get the Soft Pretzel Bites, Three Ways recipe by Annie's Eats
Get the Black Pepper Popovers recipe by FamilyStyle Food via Food52
Get the Heart of Gold recipe by dymnyno via Food52
Get the Corn Zeppole recipe by Andrew Feinberg via Food52

