Dempsey, Bradley, Altidore on US team for friendlies
CHICAGO (AP) -- Clint Dempsey, Jozy Altidore and Michael Bradley highlight the U.S. team chosen by Jurgen Klinsmann on Sunday for exhibition matches against Denmark and Switzerland.
Seattle's Dempsey and the two Toronto stars are among six Major League Soccer players selected for the 23-man side. Goalkeeper Nick Rimando of Real Salt Lake joins defender Brek Shea of expansion Orlando City SC, midfielder Gyasi Zardes of the Los Angeles Galaxy.
The rest of the roster is comprised mostly of players in Europe, such as Tottenham Hotspur's DeAndre Yedlin, Hamburg's Julian Green and AZ Alkmaar's Aron Johannsson.
The United States is set to face Denmark in Aarhus on March 25, and Switzerland in Zurich on March 31.
The U.S. Under-23 and Under-20 teams were also announced by U.S. Soccer on Sunday. The U-23 team is preparing for Olympic qualifying ahead of the 2016 Rio Games, and the U-20 World Cup starts in May in New Zealand.
''From a senior team perspective, it's exciting to put players in different areas and get a better picture of where they are right now,'' Klinsmann said. ''As we juggle the rosters for the different groups, we maybe even have players go between teams at a certain point.''
Green, Yedlin, Brooks, and Rubio all are eligible to do so.
''When you talk about developing players, you always want to prioritize things,'' Klinsmann added. ''You say 'OK, if this player goes with this team, what would he get out of it, and what could he gain?' I think there are certain younger players that can gain the most right now if they're with me.''
The senior national team roster:
GOALKEEPERS (3): Cody Cropper (Southampton), Nick Rimando (Real Salt Lake), William Yarbrough (Club Leon)
DEFENDERS (8): Ventura Alvarado (Club America), John Brooks (Hertha Berlin), Timmy Chandler (Eintracht Frankfurt), Greg Garza (Club Tijuana), Michael Orozco (Puebla), Tim Ream (Bolton Wanderers), Brek Shea (Orlando City SC), DeAndre Yedlin (Tottenham Hotspur)
MIDFIELDERS (8): Alejandro Bedoya (Nantes), Michael Bradley (Toronto FC), Julian Green (Hamburg), Miguel Ibarra (Minnesota United FC), Fabian Johnson (Borussia Monchengladbach), Alfredo Morales (Ingolstadt), Danny Williams (Reading), Gyasi Zardes (LA Galaxy)
FORWARDS (4): Jozy Altidore (Toronto FC), Clint Dempsey (Seattle Sounders FC), Aron Johannsson (AZ Alkmaar), Rubio Rubin (Utrecht)

