http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/571918/s/26935cf5/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cengland0C974390A40CFootball0EAssociation0Edisappointed0Ewith0EUefa0Esanction0Eof0ESerbia0Eand0Esays0Eit0Edoes0Enot0Esend0Ea0Estrong0Eenough0Emessage0Bhtml/story01.htm
Football Association 'disappointed' with Uefa sanction of Serbia and says it 'does not send a strong enough message'
By Mark Ogden
9:20PM GMT 13 Dec 2012
Comments
Stunned by the paltry financial sanction laid down by Uefa, £15,000 less than was given to Nicklas Bendtner during Euro 2012 for displaying a bookmaker’s logo on his underwear, the FA has accused Uefa of failing to send a “strong enough message” over racism.
The FA also vowed to fight the suspensions handed down to Tottenham Hotspur defender Steven Caulker and Blackpool winger Tom Ince – who admitted last month to being “frightened” and “scared” in Krusevac – following their alleged involvement in ugly post-match scenes.
There had been calls from across the game for firm action against Serbia after black Under-21 players such as Ince, Danny Rose and Marvin Sordell were subjected to monkey chants before and during the game, and a brawl erupted after the final whistle during which England officials were assaulted.
Five Serbian players and technical staff have been suspended as a result of their conduct following the match, including a two-year ban from all football-related activities for fitness coach Andreja Milunovic, who head-butted England goalkeeper coach Martin Thomas. Serbia U21s will have to play one game behind closed doors.
“We are disappointed with the sanctions levied by Uefa with regards to the racist behaviour displayed towards England’s players,” FA general secretary Alex Horne said in a statement. “Let’s be clear, racism is unacceptable in any form, and should play no part in football. The scenes were deplorable and we do not believe the sanction sends a strong enough message.”
Serbia fined paltry £65,900
Henry Winter: Uefa's reaction to racists is pathetic
Uefa postpone Serbia racism hearing
Ince: U21 were all scared in Serbia
Two England players charged
Caulker and Lees face Serb charges
He also indicated that the next time an England team plays in Serbia the FA would seek assurances over player safety.
While Uefa dismissed charges against the FA for failing to control its players during the fixture in Serbia, Stuart Pearce’s team has received a warning for improper conduct after receiving more than five bookings.
The suspensions issued to Caulker – who has been banned for two games – and Ince (one match) have prompted incredulity within the FA. Both players face having to serve their suspensions during the Euro 2013 Finals in Israel and Horne insisted that the pair will be fully supported in appeals. Rose, meanwhile, will serve a one-match ban for being sent off in Krusevac.
Horne said: “It is the FA’s vehement belief that its players and staff acted correctly in the face of provocation, including racist abuse and missiles being thrown. We are therefore surprised to see that two of our players have been given suspensions. We shall await Uefa’s reasoning but it is our intention, at this stage, to support our players and appeal these decisions.”
Pearce, the England U21 head coach, said: “I am concerned to see our players suspended by Uefa and we will continue to support them. I maintain that our players played no part in the aggression. From what I witnessed our players and staff were forced to protect themselves in the violent scenes that followed the game.”
Reaction in Serbia to the Uefa sanctions chimed with the mood within English football, with Zoran Lakovic, the general secretary of the Serbian FA, conceding that the association had escaped heavier punishment.
“The punishment is not as harsh as we thought it might be but the verdict and the incident that caused it should come as a last warning to everyone representing Serbian football,” Lakovic said. “That means the coaches, the players and of course the fans because even the slightest trouble in future could result in the most rigorous measures.”
Manchester United’s Rio Ferdinand was one of many players who expressed their anger on Twitter. “Uefa need to talk to this generation.....they don’t seem to be up to date on this issue?? Harsh punishments needed as a deterrent #simple.” The former England striker Andy Cole also tweeted: “uefa. ??? Please. Punishment again joke.”
<noframe>Twitter: Rio Ferdinand - Uefa need to talk to this generation.....they don't seem to be up to date on this issue?? Harsh punishments needed as a deterrent <a href="http://search.twitter.com/search?q=simple" target="_blank">#simple</a></noframe>
Sports minister Hugh Robertson, who had written to Uefa president Michel Platini demanding tough action for the racist abuse, expressed his disappointment. “I am disappointed in the punishment that has been awarded to the Serbian FA given the widespread racist abuse that England’s Under-21 team suffered that night. Racism is completely unacceptable and we need tough sanctions to help combat it.”
Uefa was also accused of allowing Serbia to escape more meaningful punishment by anti-racism groups. Kick It Out chairman Lord Herman Ouseley said: “Kick It Out shares the concerns of many in football that abuse aimed at black players isn’t taken seriously enough. This is a paltry slap on the wrist and again we haven’t seen decisive action from Uefa.”
<noframe>Twitter: Rio Ferdinand - Uefa are not serious at all on racism. Fines do not work at all. They have zero impact on federations/clubs/fans/players. <a href="http://search.twitter.com/search?q=fact" target="_blank">#fact</a></noframe>
Meanwhile, Piara Powar, executive director of European anti-discrimination body Fare, added: “We are disappointed in the totality of the sanction handed out to the Serbian FA.
“The original offences warranted a more severe collective punishment than a ban on spectators for one match. This is a moment in which leadership to challenge discrimination is needed from all authorities. This sanction falls short of that objective.
“We fully acknowledge the unilateral action taken by the Serbian FA in suspending players and sacking coaches in the wake of the match, but they need to demonstrate a wider commitment to educate their supporters and work towards tolerance.”
