<<<<<<< HEAD
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604236/s/448a3bcf/sc/15/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Colympics0C114812810CUK0ESport0Eunwilling0Eto0Esoften0Efunding0Erules0Ewith0EOlympic0Eevents0Eyet0Eto0Eshow0Emedal0Epotential0Eunlikely0Eto0Eget0Esupport0Bhtml/story01.htm
=======
>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
UK Sport unwilling to soften funding rules with Olympic events yet to show medal potential unlikely to get support
By Ben Rumsby
6:14PM GMT 18 Mar 2015
Comments
It was during an interview with Michael Parkinson that Brian Clough was famously asked how he usually reacted to a player who said: “Boss, you’re doing it wrong.” In an answer that has gone down in football folklore, Clough replied: “Well, I ask him how he thinks it ought to be done. And then we get down to it, and we talk about it for 20 minutes, and then we decide I was right.” There are echoes of ‘Ol’ Big Head’ in UK Sport’s public consultation over whether its own ‘No Compromise’ approach is the right way forward when it comes to the funding of elite sport.
At least, that is judging by the likely outcome being announced today by the body that the Government has tasked with bankrolling Olympic and Paralympic sports.
Inside Sport has learnt that there will be very little discernible change as a result of the consultation, with UK Sport deciding ‘No Compromise’ as it is currently implemented will remain in place in the build-up to the 2020 Games in Tokyo.
That will come as a huge disappointment to the likes of basketball and other team sports, whose withdrawal of funding after London 2012 provoked an outcry over the cutting adrift of sports which cannot operate elite programmes without UK Sport backing.
The principle of giving millions of pounds of public money only to athletes who show medal potential remains, by and large, the right one for the time being.
It saw Great Britain go from winning just one gold medal at the 1996 Olympics to 29 at London 2012, one of the great sporting success stories of our time.
It also acts as a spur for athletes and sports to prove they can compete for podium places at major championships before they are accepted on the £100 million-a-year programme.
But no sport can demonstrate that potential if it cannot even afford to enter the relevant competitions.
That was the Catch 22 situation in which basketball found itself before Sport England, the grass-roots funding body, bailed it out to the tune of £500,000 last year.
The outcome of UK Sport’s public consultation could easily have been a redefining of ‘No Compromise’ to entitle every Olympic and Paralympic sport to a small allowance – no more than would enable them to enter competitions at which their performances are assessed.
Instead, it is understood the only concession to team sports that will be made in the wake of the consultation is a recognition of the added value of a medal won in such sports when it comes to inspiring the next generation of athletes.
That would mean future funding decisions acknowledging that while only Jessica Ennis-Hill is able to use her Olympic gold to spread the heptathlon gospel, hockey has 16 bronze medallists to call upon to extol its virtues.
This is only likely to benefit sports which are already close to proving their medal potential, meaning those at an earlier stage of their development – like basketball – still get nothing.
Roger Moreland, the British Basketball performance chairman, told Inside Sport: “I’d be very disappointed if there wasn’t any recognition that we need to do some more work on helping team sports to develop.” Moreland also questioned UK Sport’s decision to conduct its consultation, which received exactly 999 responses, so close to a General Election.
It is a salient point because whoever is in government after May 7 will be able to dictate exactly how the body spends its cash.
Armstrong could compete again next year after talks with Tygart
The prospect of Lance Armstrong returning to sporting competition moved a step closer last week after he met the man who brought him down in a bid to overturn his life ban.
The disgraced seven-time Tour de France winner held face-to-face talks with Travis Tygart, the chief executive of the United States Anti-Doping Agency, for the first time since December 2012.
Armstrong, whose plans to ride Tour stages for charity alongside former England footballer Geoff Thomas provoked an outcry, wants to compete in elite-level triathlons rather than making a comeback in cycling.
What is little known is that the 43-year-old will be able to take part in the multi-discipline event in less than 18 months’ time even if Usada refuses to lift his suspension.
Article 10.10.1 of the 2009 World Anti-Doping Code allows an athlete, after a period of ineligibility of four years, to “participate in local sports events in a sport other than the sport in which the athlete committed the anti-doping rule violation”.
Wada has confirmed to Inside Sport that Armstrong’s life ban commenced on August 24, 2012, meaning he could return to competition shortly before he turns 45 — albeit not at the elite level he craves.

Platini forces English elite to wait
Michel Platini is in no rush to enter into negotiations with the Premier League over allowing it to play matches on Champions League nights during the 2022-23 season.
Having conceded defeat in its battle to prevent the World Cup in Qatar being moved to November-December, the league wants Uefa to lift temporarily its ban on top-flight games kicking off at the same time as matches in European club competitions.
That would ease the fixture congestion the league fears will result from the Qatar 2022 switch and could even allow FA Cup relays and two-legged League Cup semi-finals to be preserved.
“It is eight years away,” Platini told Inside Sport. “We have time for all these discussions.”
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
