Football Association attempt to resurrect Team GB men's team for Rio Olympics
By Ben Rumsby, Belfast
9:00PM GMT 02 Mar 2015
Comments
The Football Association is trying to resurrect the Great Britain men’s team in time for them to enter next year’s Olympics, sparking another row with the other home federations.
The Daily Telegraph has learnt that the FA has dramatically reversed its decision to scrap the British men’s side after it was controversially revived at London 2012, its first appearance at a Games for 52 years.
But the proposed about-turn has angered the Football Association of Wales and Irish Football Association, which have taken umbrage at the FA informing them of its intention to enter a team at Rio 2016 without consulting them first.
A row broke out on Friday during the annual general meeting of the International Football Association Board in Belfast which could scupper the prospect of Welsh or Northern Irish players being part of any British squad.
If opposition from other home nations is vehement enough, it could also influence Fifa when they decide whether or not to ratify the presence of GB teams in Rio.
Our British XI for Rio 2016
Team GB football squad
Fifa say 'No' to video technology trial
'Qatar 2022 to finish no later than Dec 18'
Our British XI for Rio 2016, in pictures
The Scottish Football Association was less antagonistic to towards the FA’s plans, although that is likely to be because it will maintain its position of non-engagement on the concept of Team GB, which it adopted prior to London 2012.
The revival of a men’s team caused huge divisions among the home nations in the build-up to the last Games, for which Britain qualified automatically as hosts.
For them to enter the Rio Olympics, England Under-21s would have to reach the semi-finals of this summer’s European Championship.
The FA had previously ruled out fielding a British team under those circumstances, with recently-departed general secretary Alex Horne saying just after the 2012 Games: “We play as England and we are proud to play as England and I know Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland are proud to play as their own individual entities and we wouldn’t want to do anything to risk that.”
That was seen as an acknowledgement of fears among the home associations that regular participation by Britain at the Olympics could open the door for other members of Fifa to challenge their special status within the governing body and even force them to merge and form a permanent unified team.

But Gareth Southgate, the England Under-21s manager, and Dan Ashworth, the FA’s director of elite development, have driven a change of policy at the governing body, believing the under-23 tournament could provide valuable experience for the country’s youngsters.
That prompted Horne to write to the other home associations on his final day in office to inform them of the FA’s intention to enter both a men’s and women’s team pending qualification.
A women’s entry was always on the cards following their encouraging debut at London 2012 and the absence of the same degree of opposition there would be to a men’s side.
England’s women would need to finish among the top-three ranked European countries at this summer’s World Cup in order to qualify Team GB for Rio.
As well as fighting to convince the FAW and IFA of its plans for the men’s side, the FA could face opposition from clubs when it comes to calling up players for a competition which begins within weeks of the 2016 European Championship.
They are not obliged to release players for the Olympic tournament and the FA was forced to promise not to select any at London 2012 who had also featured at Euro 2012, including the likes of Wayne Rooney.
That 18-man squad [see here for squad gallery], which crashed out on penalties in the quarter-finals, featured 13 Englishmen and five Welshmen and was captained by Ryan Giggs, who was one of three permitted over-age players.
Leading: Ryan Giggs skippered the 2012 side (GETTY IMAGES)
Gareth Bale missed out through injury three years ago but were Wales to fail to qualify for Euro 2016, securing the release of the world’s most expensive player from Real Madrid would be the Olympic team’s top priority.
Having retired from England duty, Steven Gerrard and Frank Lampard could also be selected as two of the other over-age players in the squad.
The FA has always been the governing body empowered by the British Olympic Association to coordinate the formation of a Great Britain team.
A BOA spokesperson said: “We have received confirmation from the FA of their intention to enter into the qualification process for Rio 2016 for both men and women’s tournaments.”

