Robert Green's future in doubt after QPR's £2.5m signing of Brazil goalkeeper Julio Cesar from Inter Milan
By John Percy
11:31PM BST 28 Aug 2012
Comments
Green, the England international, will be relegated to No 2 goalkeeper less than two months after his arrival, with Cesar expected to officially seal his surprise move on Wednesday. Green only joined Rangers in July but is already set for the axe after a string of high-profile mistakes this season.
The 32 year-old endured a nightmare debut against Swansea City on the opening day of the season and was the subject of taunts from Paddy Kenny, who left Loftus Road for Leeds this summer, while he also looked unconvincing against former club Norwich.
Hughes, the Rangers manager, has moved swiftly to replace Green after sealing a deal for Inter’s Brazil international Cesar. The 32 year-old could even make his debut in Rangers' next game at Manchester City, with Green starting on the bench. Cesar, who helped Inter win the Champions League in 2010 and has been capped by Brazil 64 times, is poised to sign a three-year deal.
Cesar’s arrival is the latest humilation for Green, who has struggled to rebuild his reputation after a costly blunder for England in the World Cup game against the US two years ago. Hughes could even allow him to leave on loan for a Championship club when the loan window opens.
Joey Barton could still complete his protracted loan move to Marseille after negotiations reopened on Tuesday night. Barton, who is serving a 12-game ban after being sent off against Manchester City on the final day last season, revealed on Twitter that the move was off on Tuesday morning, comparing his treatment at Rangers to “members of the Taliban”.
QPR 3 Walsall 0
Barton loan move to Marseille collapses
Norwich City and QPR in need of new faces
Leeds fine Kenny for abusive QPR texts
Walcott on the brink as talks collapse
Drogba's China move turning sour
He tweeted: “Doesn’t look like this Marseille thing is gonna happen now. Whatever doesn’t kill you make you stronger. £heartbroken. Why can’t things just be simple.... Been forced to go back training with the kids and fellow Taliban members at 2pm today.”
However, it is understood that Marseille are attempting to revive a deal, with QPR determined to recruit Stephane Mbia from the French club as part of the agreement. Barton is determined to leave the club before the transfer window closes, after he was not even allotted a squad number for this season.
QPR could also offload a string of other fringe players before Friday’s deadline. Jay Bothroyd has been targeted for a loan switch by Sheffield Wednesday while DJ Campbell is also expected to leave, with Bristol City and Blackpool potential destinations.
Hughes is still battling to complete a £8 million deal for Michael Dawson, the Spurs defender, while Ricardo Carvalho, who has been told he can leave Real Madrid by Jose Mourinho, is an alternative target.

