Champions League quarter-finalists ranked and reviewed
Cristiano Ronaldo 'wants to end career with transfer to USA'
By Bob Williams
11:16PM GMT 17 Mar 2015
Comments
Cristiano Ronaldo wants a swansong in Major League Soccer once his contract at Real Madrid ends in 2018, according to reports.
Sports Illustrated claims the Portuguese winger, 30, is interested in moving to big cities such as New York, Los Angeles and Miami.
New York currently have two teams - New York Red Bulls and New York City, the latter who are jointly owned by Manchester City and the New York Yankees.
Deal maker: Cristiano Ronaldo's commercial work could be better served in America than Europe
Los Angeles will have two teams by 2018, the LA Galaxy - whom Steven Gerrard will join in the summer - and another team in 2017, whose backers include Magic Johnson and Vincent Tan.
• Is Ronaldo an impossible teammate for Bale?
David Beckham has the rights for a franchise in Miami, due to enter the league in 2017, but a stadium delay has put major doubt on the project.
However, the lure of having Ronaldo on their team will no doubt spur the Beckham group and the City of Miami to ensure that they do not lose their expansion spot.

Ronaldo's inclination to join the MLS shows just how far the league has come in attracting major names to the United States.
Since Beckham's stint at Los Angeles, Thierry Henry played for New York Red Bulls, New York City signed David Villa while former Real Madrid and AC Milan playmaker Kaka plays for Orlando City.
Frank Lampard, controversially, will join New York City in the summer, joining Gerrard in the league, while the likes of Xavi and Iker Casillas have been linked with moves to the US, partly for the high wages but also for the lifestyle opportunities that country offers.

The MLS has a salary cap but under the designated player rule, clubs can sign players on lucrative contracts. Kaka is currently the highest paid player in MLS with a salary of $7,100,000 (£4,810,000) a year and it would take a similar figure, if not higher, to land Ronaldo, who earns around £13,800,000 a season at the Bernabeu.
Manchester United have long harboured hopes that Ronaldo would return to Old Trafford one day but it appears as if he will head to the MLS, in what will be an unbelievable coup for the league.
In January, Ronaldo's agent Jorge Mendes, said that after the winger's Real Madrid contract ends "perhaps he will go to the US. Only God knows what will happen". While on a pre-season tour of the US in 2012, Ronaldo said that he hoped to play in the US one day.
Follow Bob Williams on Twitter

