Gareth Bale can rise to the challenge at Real Madrid
By Oliver Brown
8:00AM GMT 12 Mar 2015
Comments
• Gareth Bale needs to come home • Real line up Zinedine Zidane to take over from Ancelotti • Bale booed by his own fans on bad night for Real • 'Di Maria should move to Arsenal to save career'
When Gareth Bale scores his next Real Madrid goal, he would be well-advised not to inflict his love-heart celebration upon the club’s restive fanbase.
For many of the cat-calls that cascaded from the Bernabéu stands during this week’s shambolic display against Schalke were aimed squarely at one crestfallen Welshman. “That ain’t good,” as Gary Lineker, shaped by his own experiences at Barcelona, so pithily observed. The moment the zeitgeist turns against you in La Liga tends to be the moment you join the Z-list.
Just ask Jonathan Woodgate.
Bale, in fairness, would be closer to Steve McManaman on the spectrum of success among British footballers who have tried their luck elsewhere. His extra-time strike helped sink Atlético Madrid in a Champions League final, and his Road Runner-like pace to beat Marc Bartra and produce the goal that won last season’s Copa del Rey ought at least to have made the shortlist for the Puskas Award.
Gareth Bale won the Champions League and Copa del Rey in his first season at Real (GETTY IMAGES)
But a world-record, £85 million fee is legitimised only by sustained brilliance and there is no question that Bale’s contributions, in the month since a ghastly 4-0 defeat at Atlético, have trailed off alarmingly.
Before, Cardiff’s 'boyo wonder’ was firing off one shot every 22 minutes, on average. Now? One every 60. His personal stat-sheet in a chaotic 4-3 loss to Schalke was grisly: zero crosses completed, zero dribbles past an opponent, and just one of four aerial battles won. Either the figures reflect an unusually wretched night’s work, or they suggest that a creeping lethargy is limiting the game’s most expensive talent. The evidence grows in support of the second conclusion: in 2014-15, Opta statistics show Bale has been letting opposition players dart past him three times as often as last season.
It is this perception of indolence that grates most with Real supporters.
At a time when the Spanish economy is a sclerotic mess, with youth unemployment at 53 per cent and a Bernabéu season-ticket the rarest of luxuries, it ill behoves any Real player to be doing less of the yeoman work in midfield, or to be anything less than tireless in seeking to justify a £300,000-a-week pay cheque. The Real fans rightly carry a reputation as the most temperamental on the planet – they once booed Zinedine Zidane, today a club icon – but they are still capable of forgiving fleeting dips in form. What they will never abide is the impression of a lack of graft.
Even the great Zinedine Zidane was one booed by the unforgiving Bernabéu crowd (GETTY IMAGES)
With Bale, they are belatedly discovering the uncomfortable truth that he was bought as much for cold commercial imperatives as his extra-terrestrial gifts with a ball. Florentino Pérez, Real’s president, saw in the slickness of his image a sure passport to the markets of the Far East, a Brylcreemed corporate darling who could be plastered across every billboard from Seoul to Singapore.
My, how the ruse has worked. Bale found himself the only Real player not travelling to the World Cup last summer, and was instead enlisted to be the face of a football clinic in Indonesia. Bale is the glossy counterpoint to Ronaldinho, an extravagantly accomplished striker but famously deemed “too ugly” by one Pérez lieutenant to don the all-white strip of Real.
It is not his fault that he profited so lucratively from the fortuitous timing of his move in 2013, or from his club’s need for another cross-continental poster-boy, but he is destined to be forever branded as football’s first €100 million man. It is such a part of his make-up that he should patent it, just as he lodged the love-heart – “my 11 of hearts,” the No 11 called it – with the Intellectual Property Office.
The lavishness of Real’s investment in Bale helps explain why judgments upon him are so caustic in Madrid. Ronaldo is allowed to cultivate his own cult of personality, whether in the form of his CR7 trademark or his self-aggrandising museum in Madeira, but at least he has three Ballon d’Or baubles to show for it. While Bale has achieved the collective honour that he came to Spain for, with his Champions League medal, he lacks the level of individual distinction to indulge in too much Ronaldo-esque preening.
Bale has failed to perform for Real Madrid in recent months (GETTY IMAGES)
The phenomenon of Bale Incorporated simply does not exist without constant reminders of the genius that created it in the first place.
Bale’s predicament is not irrevocable. Karim Benzema endured similarly torrid abuse from the fickle Bernabéu die-hards but doused the fires by publicly accepting, last autumn, that as a Real centre-forward he was expected to score a goal per game.
One forgotten headline amid the haplessness of the team’s showing against Schalke was that the Frenchman found the net for a 12th match in succession. For Bale, alas, the exasperation continued. His was a performance of such anonymity that home fans were left howling in indignation.

He might consider weathering the maelstrom for now. After all, the only people who test Real Madrid’s patience more than marquee signings are managers, and there is every indication that Carlo Ancelotti, far adrift in his task of securing a first league title for three years, will be sacked this summer.
A change of leader could spell a change of tactics, with Bale restored to the 4-3-3 system that proved so irresistible before. The challenge is pressing, because Bale looks — in what should be his glory years — uncharacteristically gun-shy. At a club so short-termist, this renders him a natural fall guy. And once the scapegoating starts, it can be infernally difficult to stop.

