<<<<<<< HEAD
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568937/s/42ec7d84/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Camericanfootball0C113827630CSuper0EBowl0EXLIX0Eto0Eshow0Eechoes0Eof0Erugby0Eas0ESeattle0ESeahawks0Etake0Elessons0Efrom0Ethe0Esports0Ecousin0Bhtml/story01.htm
=======
>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
Super Bowl XLIX to show echoes of rugby as Seattle Seahawks take lessons from the sport's cousin
By Daniel Schofield
4:34PM GMT 01 Feb 2015
Comments
The Seattle Seahawks head into the Super Bowl on Sunday night boasting the most fearsome defence in the NFL, perhaps the greatest in history. Their secondary, whose job it is mark the wide receivers, is known as the Legion of Boom. Up front on the line of scrimmage, they are just as ferocious but every player in the defence is indoctrinated in the art of tackling like Tom Palmer.
The Gloucester and former England lock is one of several rugby players who appeared in an instructional video released by the defending Super Bowl champions at the start of the season. As Pete Carroll, the Seahawks head coach, makes plain their system of shoulder-leverage tackling was "inspired by those who play rugby around the world."
At first the idea of redefining the American football style hit was anathema to Carroll, but the wave of injuries - notably the concussion crisis - caused by helmet-led tackling caused him to see the light. "I fought it like crazy. And then I said to heck with it, I've got to support this and I haven't looked at it the same since."
Safety concerns aside, adopting a shoulder-led technique with a mantra of "eyes through the thighs, wrap and squeeze, and drive for five" has proven to be remarkably effective.
For the third consecutive season, Seattle finished as the NFL leader for the fewest points allowed, emulating the great 1969-71 Minnesota Vikings "Purple People Eaters".
Brady ready to etch name in history
Anti domestic violence ad to be shown during Super Bowl
Seahawk Sherman to make Super Bowl birth decision
Katy Perry: The Hunger Games crossed with SpongeBob SquarePants
"Rugby players take the head out of the game," Carroll said. "We practice this without helmets, without pads and we've been a pretty good tackling group. I don't know how you measure that, but I feel it's crucial to our style of play."
As anyone who has witnessed Kam Chancellor, the monstrous safety, in action will testify it has not diminished the Seahawks' physicality in any way. Yet the fundamentals of correct tackling technique, which prizes bringing an opponent down over the highlight-reel big hit, are constantly drummed into the players.
"I think you're conscious of it because he [Carroll] beats it into your head so often," Cliff Avril, the defensive end, said. "He talks about it a lot. Just tackling in general, and style of tackling is something he emphasises so much.
“Subconsciously, you start thinking about it more and more and even though you don't tackle full-speed in practice, in your head you're finishing off the tackle. By the time game day comes, it works out for us because we come out fast."
Facing the Seahawks in Arizona are the New England Patriots who boast a player in Nate Ebner who appeared for the USA at the inaugural rugby Junior World Championship in 2008. Ebner played rugby almost exclusively growing up. It was only at Ohio State University that he reluctantly turned to American football because he needed to finish his degree before he could earn a professional rugby contract.
Within just a couple of years of playing the sport, Ebner was picked up in the draft by the Patriots in 2012, which he attributed to the defensive head-start rugby provided him.
"I think all the years playing without pads and having to protect yourself in the tackle set me up to be a good tackler, especially in space one on one," Ebner said. "Without all the equipment, it made me more of a sure tackler because I had so many one-on-one in space tackles in rugby so I could apply that to the football field."
For Nigel Meville, the former England captain now in charge of USA rugby, Ebner is the one that got away. "He was a great athlete, quick and a good tackler," Melville said. "I could see him being a full back in the Premiership."
Crossover athletes are rare. Haloti Ngata, a five-time Pro Bowl defensive end with the Baltimore Ravens, grew up playing rugby, but as Melville points out, "Ian Botham came over to play baseball once and it didn't work. Just look at Sam Burgess crossing over from rugby to rugby and even he's finding it hard."
There is good reason why so few players can flit between the sports. Those who complain that rugby is stop start have probably never seen an NFL game in which a player may be required for 50 bursts of explosiveness lasting just a few seconds over the course of more than three hours. It requires a fundamentally different levels of fitness and physicality.
The only professional rugby player to have managed the transition to the NFL is Hayden Smith. Smith, an Australian lock, moved from Saracens to the New York Jets in 2012 earning a place on their roster as a tightend for 18 months. He still remembers the pain of those first training sessions.
"My hamstrings were just screaming," Smith said. "My whole body was incredibly tight and painful. That was because while I had a huge anaerobic capacity and could run for days, the type of training was based around high intensity sprints repeated over and over.
"It is all on speed, power, your ability to break out of a turn, how much you can bench press, how big your hands are. It is all very measurable and that is reflected in the game being based around speed and power with less intuition."
That is a reference to the six-inch thick playbook that Smith spent 14 hours a day learning, when he wasn't training. "There are thousands of iterations of how a play can be called and drawn together. Learning it is a long process," Smith says with considerable understatement.
It will not stop others trying. Cory Jane, the All Blacks wing, has long been intrigued by the possibility of switching and Jarryd Hayne, a superstar in rugby league, is currently trying out with the Detroit Lions special teams.
The hope for Melville and others is to capture some of the talent flowing the other way. USA Rugby have started organising "combines" for the dozens of phenomenal athletes who failed to earn a contract in the NFL to try their hand at rugby.
Saracens and Harlequins have attended previous combines and both clubs have informal link-ups with NFL teams; Saracens with the Jets and Harlequins with the Philadelphia Eagles.
Last summer, Conor O'Shea, the Harlequins director of rugby, spent a week with the Eagles, who like Quins are renowned for their high-tempo offence under Chip Kelly. "We wanted to see how they run their team meetings, how they run their team training - can we bring something in that makes it a little bit different and freshen things," O'Shea said.
"The Eagles were an unbelievable environment to be exposed to culturally and how accepting they were, how open they were and hopefully we can apply a few things we learnt over here."
It is clear that rugby has a lot to learn from American football, particularly in the specialisation of its coaching and scouting departments.
Yet as the Seahawks defence and Ebner take to the field at the University of Phoenix Stadium in front of an estimated 160 million viewers, rugby - "the redheaded stepchild of American pastimes" as a Sports Illustrated columnist wrote this week - still holds an influence over its more glamorous cousin.
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
