Newcastle United vs Arsenal: as it happened
By Ben Bloom
5:08PM GMT 21 Mar 2015
• Newcastle United 1 Arsenal 2, match report • Olivier Giroud needs more love from Arsenal fans • Latest Premier League table

NEWCASTLE 1-2 ARSENAL
17.08 That is all from me. Arsenal remain just one point behind second-placed Manchester City whle Newcastle drop to 12th in the table. If only a team could combine Arsenal's first half with Newcastle's second they would be Premier League champions. Anyway, we move on. Thanks for joining me. Cheerio.
16.58 That first half seems a long time ago now. At half-time there looked to be no way back for Newcastle. Arsenal had been totally dominant for 45 minutes and seemed to be on track for four or five goals. But the second half was a completely different proposition. Newcastle pressed over and over and over again. And then some more.
16.54 Arsenal fans: breathe. You got away with one there.
Full time
90+3 min Almost a third for Arsenal! Bellerin does brilliantly to win the ball deep inside the Newcastle penalty area but Krul is out quickly to smother his shot-cum-cross. Nearly there...
90+1 min Bellerin brings the ball forward and wins a throw in high up the pitch to allow the visitors to run down the clock a little.
90 min Four minutes added time to be played. Cue an almighty roar from the home fans.
89 min The Newcastle of the second half have been a totally different beast to the opening 45 minutes. Arsenal will be mightily relieved if they come away with all three points here. Welbeck is off for Bellerin.
87 min The action does not stop and the Arsenal defence are looking desperate. It is Cabella again causing trouble, surging into the penalty area on the right only for his cross to be turned behind by a last-ditch lunge. Moments later Perez's shot is deflected on its way through on goal and Ospina does very well to stick his foot out to save.
82 min Should Newcastle have had a penalty??? That is a huge shout as Cabella goes down under Koscielny's clumsy challenge. And replays show the Newcastle man may well have got his toe to the ball before Koscielny dived in. A let off for the visitors? Perhaps.
78 min How are Arsenal going to survive this onslaught? Gutierrez bursts through down the left and has options waiting for the pull back on the edge of the box but instead he fizzes a cross across the face of goal. If only he had looked up and maintained his compusure he could well have set up the equaliser.
74 min What a run from Cabella! He kicks things off with a nutmeg on Koscielny, continues to surge forward, holds off two Arsenal defenders and tries his luck from the edge of the penalty area only for a deflection to take the sting out of it and allow Krul to hold on.
71 min Newcastle also make a change with Gutierrez on for Anita.
70 min Time for a double change for Arsenal with Flamini and Rosicky readying themselves for action. No surprises there with the visitors deperate to try and get a hold of this game again. It is Cazorla and Sanchez who will make way.
66 min Now it is Janmaat's turn to try his luck from range but his effort flies past the post with Ospina scrambling at full stretch.
65 min This is relentless from Newcastle now. They are camped in the final third of the pitch.
64 min Very nervy times for Arsenal fans as their side are forced deep into their own half. Now Cabella produces a great run that ends with him darting into the visitors' penalty area and pulling the ball to win a corner that Williamson heads towards goal only for Ospina to make the save! This game has turned on its head.
62 min Was that a penalty? The crowd are convinced Newcastle should have a spotkick as Chambers's hand deflects a cross from the right but the referee (correctly) rules it ball to hand. The cross still manages to work its way to Gouffran on the edge of the box but he is unable to get any power behind his effort and shoots lamely at Ospina.
56 min Newcastle have a spring in their step here and it takes a hard-working Sanchez to end an attack from the home side, winning back possession on the edge of his own penalty area.
54 min Mike Ashley missed that Newcastle goal because he was late coming back from hospitality at half-time. That's not a lie...

50 min So close to an equaliser! Perez tries his luck from range and his curling effort has Ospina scrambling only for it to just curl wide of the far post. St James's Park is suddenly a cauldron of noise.
GOAL! Newcastle 1-2 Arsenal (Sissoko) Brilliant work on the right flank from Cabella who looks up and plays the perfect low cross to the edge of the penalty area where Sissoko is arriving at pace and the Newcastle skipper buries his effort.
47 min The home side have an early chance here with Ryan Taylor standing over a free kick on the left. In comes the ball... and out goes the ball via an Arsenal defender's head. Report card says "must try harder".
46 min Newcastle begin the second half. Is there a way back?
Half time
44 min ...But Cazorla's free-kick fails to beat the first Newcastle defender.
43 min A needless free kick is given away by Cabella with Ramsey facing away from goal near the corner flag. Now the visitors have a chance to extend their lead just before half-time...
40 min Judging by the number of times he has fallen foul of it, Perez doesn't know the offside rule.
39 min Ameobi has probably been the most exciting of Newcastle's players so far. Twice he wins back possession before providing perfect passes for team-mates ahead of him but Arsenal have just enough bodies deep inside their own penalty area to see off the danger. Better from John Carver's side.
35 min Newcastle can't seem to retain any meaningful possession at the moment. Only Arsene Wenger's side look like scoring here.
34 min Welbeck beats one, beats two, beats three and then a few more for good measure... but then gives the ball away inside the Newcastle penalty area. From such highs follow deep lows.
31 min Newcastle have a glimmer of light here as Ryan Taylor stands over a free kick 25 yards out on the right. He attempts to find a team-mate in the box but only succeeds in whacking the ball straight into the wall.
<noframe>Twitter: OptaJoe - 5 - Olivier Giroud has scored with all five headers on target attempted against Newcastle United in the Premier League. Bonce.</noframe>
29 min How are Newcastle going to get back into this? It's an uphill struggle from here.
GOAL! Newcastle 0-2 Arsenal (Giroud) It has been all Arsenal for the last five minutes or so and this is a very simple goal. It's Giroud v Williamson from a corner and the Frenchman holds off the defender with such ease to nod home from six yards. Eight goals in six matches against Newcastle for Giroud.
25 min And so nearly a second! Sanchez renders Gouffran stationary as he flicks the ball over the Newcastle defender's head and just inside the penalty area before pulling the ball back to Welbeck. The England man's shot is hit hard but wide and the chance goes begging.
GOAL! Newcastle 0-1 Arsenal (Giroud) Well it's third time lucky for Cazorla. The Spaniard has yet another free kick from exactly the same spot on the right flank and his cross is flicked on by Welbeck for Giroud to bundle it past Krul.
23 min Much better from Arsenal. Giroud dissects the Newcastle defence to offer up Ramsey with a one-on-one but, just as Krul charges off his line, the Welshman miscontrols and knocks the ball straight out of play for a goal kick. A beautifully timed run wasted by poor execution.
21 min ...Cazorla swings it deep to the far post but Sissoko mops up with ease.
20 min Newcastle are defending deep here, which is making things difficult for Arsenal to break through and get a look at goal. The visitors have another freekick down the right though...
17 min Here come the hosts. Janmaat does well to break up play and unleash Ameobi, whose cross from the left is turned behind. Ryan Taylor takes the corner and Ospina is fortunate that the ball comes off Sissoko's head and behind for a goal kick because the goalkeeper had come and got nowhere near claiming the cross.
15 min You may not have heard of Olivier Kemen before but the Newcastle sub is making sure you won't forget what he looks like in a hurry.

14 min A decent opportunity for Arsenal here with a Cazorla standing over a free-kick on the right flank. His cross is flicked on to Sanchez at the far post but the Chilean's shot is turned behind courtesy of a lunging defender.
10 min Gabriel is wearing gloves and playing centre-back. Frankly that's disgusting.
9 min Neat and typically intricate build-up play from Arsenal predictably comes to nothing just as the visitors approach the 18-yard box. Meanwhile there is a stoppage after Ameobi leathers the ball at close range straight into Sissoko's face.
7 min Newcastle may be short of numbers thanks to a raft of injuries but they are more than holding their own in these early exchanges. Plenty of possession for the home side as Ameobi shows great footwork to jink between Arsenal defenders and thread the ball through to Perez who is correctly ruled offside.
4 min Have you got your "Rare footballing occurences" bingo card at the ready? You can tick off "goalkeeper heading the ball" after Ospina surges out of the box to nod forwards.
3 min A first sight of goal for Arsenal as Giroud finds some space but can't quite lay the ball off to Welbeck. Immediately Newcastle break down the end of the pitch through Sissoko, Perez cuts inside Chambers but his shot is blocked on its path towards Ospina's goal. Early action at St James's Park.
1 min Arsenal get things underway and the commentators are already predicting a "long afternoon" for Newcastle today. Probably about 90 minutes plus stoppage time............... The oldies are the besties.
14.58 The players are shaking hands and stripping off. Calm yourselves.
14.53 This calendar year Newcastle have only managed to beat Aston Villa and Hull. Things haven't gone brilliantly for gaffer John Carver and he had some worrying words for many of his players this week when he warned of a mass summer "clear-out".
"It's pretty obvious to the man in the street and to the professional," he said. "It has to be done. There are people out of contract, there are people who are not good enough."
Time to play for your futures then boys,
14.35 Olivier Giroud stat attack:
- Giroud has scored nine goals in his last 11 top flight starts. - Giroud's tally of one goal every 108 minutes in all competitions is inferior only to Lionel Messi, Cristiano Ronaldo, Alexandre Lacazette, Alexander Meier among Europe's major leagues. - Giroud has six goals in his last five meetings with Newcastle. - Giroud was last month voted 'Hottest Premier League Player' in a survey of 250 American women.
14.25 Breaking news: Mesut Ozil has a cold sustained when prematurely swapping shirts in Monaco.

14.20 So despite repeatedly insisting that Alexis Sanchez needs a rest, Arsene Wenger has decided to start the Chilean again. Theo Walcott still can't force his way into the starting XI, while Per Mertesacker is on the bench in place of Gabriel Paulista.
Newcastle are forced into fielding something of a makeshift defence with Jack Colback playing full-back. 18-year-old central midfielder Olivier Kemen is on the bench for his first involvement with the Newcastle first team.
14.05 The team news is in. Mesut Ozil is ill.
Newcastle: Krul, R.Taylor, Janmaat, Williamson, Colback, Anita, Sissoko, Cabella, Gouffran, Ameobi, Perez. Subs: Elliot, Satka, Kemen, Gutierrez, Obertan, Armstrong, Riviere.
Arsenal: Ospina, Chambers, Gabriel, Koscielny, Monreal, Coquelin, Ramsey, Alexis, Cazorla, Welbeck, Giroud. Subs: Szczesny, Gibbs, Mertesacker, Bellerin, Flamini, Rosicky, Walcott.
13.55 Excited about today's match? Can't contain your emotions? Well how about this to whet the appetite? IT'S ARSENAL PLAYERS WALKING THROUGH DOORS!

The Arsenal squad have arrived at St James' Park ahead of #NUFCvAFC. Team news to follow on @Arsenal at 2pm (UK time) pic.twitter.com/MSoi4uv2HQ
12.45 Good afternoon everyone. Arsenal may have been knocked out of the Champions League this week but they go into this match on the back of five successive Premier League victories which has seen them close the gap on Manchester City who sit second in the table.
Newcastle, meanwhile, have won just two of their last 10 Premier League games.
Ben Bloom will be here from around 2.30pm with all of the build-up so do return then, have a vote in our poll below and check out the links above.


