http://us.rd.yahoo.com/sports/rss/mlb/SIG=12rtp1por/*http%3A//sports.yahoo.com/news/dodgers-puig-homers-off-indians-kluber-230244307--mlb.html
Dodgers' Puig homers off Indians' Kluber
GLENDALE, Ariz. (AP) -- Yasiel Puig and Enrique Hernandez each homered off Indians AL Cy Young Award winner Corey Kluber, but Cleveland beat the Los Angeles Dodgers 4-2 Sunday.
Hernandez, the Dodgers' leadoff batter, hit Kluber's sixth pitch of the day over the center field fence. Puig connected on Kluber's first pitch of the fourth inning for his third homer.
''He's a great pitcher,'' said Puig, who also homered Friday night. ''But then he made a mistake. The first couple of times, he got me.''
Kluber pitched 5 2-3 innings, yielding three hits, two runs and a walk. He struck out six. Overall this spring, he's been taken deep four times in 12 2-3 innings.
''It's probably the best I've felt consistently,'' said the right-hander. ''It's that feeling I've been looking for on a consistent basis. It's feeling I should be able to keep.''
The Indians scored one in the fourth on a sacrifice fly by Carlos Santana.
They added three in the seventh. Yan Gomes hit an RBI double to left. Jesus Aguilar scored on Ryan Raburn's groundout, and Lonnie Chisenhall had an RBI ground-rule double to right.
STARTING TIME
Dodgers: Left-hander Hyun-Jin Ryu was sent to Los Angeles for a medical evaluation on his ailing shoulder. It is unlikely Ryu will be ready for the start of the season. As a result, the Dodgers are considering other options. David Huff is one option. He gave up one hit over three scoreless innings.
''I just got into a pretty groove there,'' said Huff, who has given up one run and six hits in 8 2-3 innings over four appearances.
Within one week, the Dodgers have started Huff, Chris Anderson, Chad Gaudin and Erik Bedard. All are non-roster invitees. The Dodgers also are expected to take a closer look at Zach Lee, Carlos Frias, Mike Bolsinger and Joe Weiland.
TRAINER'S ROOM
Indians: Second baseman Jason Kipnis missed his fourth straight game because of an ailing back. He's not expected to play Monday against the A's in Goodyear. He might get some work with the minor leaguers before he appears in another Cactus League game.
Dodgers: Bedard is scheduled to undergo a MRI Monday for a strained muscle in his left side. He was injured after throwing 30 pitches in a start Saturday in San Antonio. ... Opening day starter Clayton Kershaw didn't show any ill effects from the line drive that knocked out two of his teeth Friday. He's still scheduled to start Thursday against the White Sox. ... Reliever Brandon League, who had an injection for an inflamed right shoulder Tuesday, worked through a 15-pitch bullpen Sunday.
UP NEXT
Indians: Zach McAlister gets his third start in five spring appearances Monday against the A's in Oakland. The right-hander, who is competing for a spot as the fifth starter, has worked 10 innings, allowing five runs on 12 hits.
Dodgers: Chris Anderson, a right-hander who has pitched three innings in two appearances this spring, gets the start Monday against the Diamondbacks at Camelback Ranch instead of Brandon McCarthy. McCarthy opted to pitch in a minor league game. ''It's a chance to control the ups and downs,'' Dodgers manager Don Mattingly said. ''He can work on what he thinks he needs to.'' McCarthy got rocked in his last outing, giving up six runs to the Cubs in four innings.
