Ten reasons to keep watching the Champions League
Arsenal must resolve their mental weakness or they will remain doomed to failure
By Jeremy Wilson
10:30PM GMT 18 Mar 2015
Comments
“Insanity,” Albert Einstein said, “is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results.” It was once put to Arsène Wenger, who predictably offered some alternative wisdom. “Keep changing and you achieve nothing in life,” the Arsenal manager replied.
It would have been a convincing riposte if we were now seeing a clear and tangible advance in Arsenal’s journey. Yet for the fifth year in succession, we have arrived at the same destination and are dissecting a European campaign that has ended at the first knockout stage. Arsenal have had 17 consecutive years in the Champions League under Wenger but just how near are they to lifting club football’s most prestigious trophy?
• Giroud gave his all but could not atone for first-leg misses • Monaco 0 Arsenal 2: Champions League match report • How Arsenal's players rated in Monaco • What Arsenal must learn from Euro heartbreak
“Far,” Per Mertesacker, the captain, said. “Monaco were very underestimated. We had one bad game and that was enough. We didn’t deserve it because we played so poorly in the first leg. I think we missed in the first game that mental level you need to compete at the highest level. You could see in the second leg how good we are as a team and how well organised we can be. We need to consider that every single day in training and in games. That’s why we are so far away.”
That Arsenal were indeed so clearly the better team on Tuesday was, in its own way, actually more damning than simply being outplayed. Not being good enough is one thing. Failing to get something close to the best out of yourself at the moment of maximum importance is quite another.

A brief conversation with just about any fan on the flight from Gatwick to Nice on Monday morning had invariably ended with the same pre-match prediction. “We’ll win 2-0,” they said.
They had lived through the cycle of despair, hope and then disappointment in startlingly similar exits against Bayern Munich and AC Milan in recent seasons. It was as if everyone connected with Arsenal, players included, subconsciously already knew their own ending.
This struggle to push past a partially opened door is not confined to the Champions League. Yes, they ultimately stumbled through in the FA Cup last year but look also at how Arsenal accumulated more points than any other Premier League team in the calendar year of 2013 but faltered over complete seasons.
Arsene Wenger is lacking leaders to give Arsenal some direction
The way Arsenal are now finishing this campaign so strongly — they have won 20 out of their past 25 games — when it is probably too late to mount a serious Premier League challenge to Chelsea also follows this infuriating pattern.
As Mertesacker suggested, the biggest issue is one of mentality. There will now be a huge focus on the changes that Wenger should make to his squad in order to improve next season. He will have around £50 million to spend and a new centre-back, central midfielder and goalkeeper are all under consideration.
Southampton’s Morgan Schneiderlin and Borussia Dortmund’s Neven Subotic are among those being regularly scouted but, in the vast research that is done into every prospective signing, Wenger should pay particularly close attention to the psychological profile. What he needs more than any specific improvement in a single position are additions with the on-field instinct to manage a situation like the first leg against Monaco.
Did you know Telegraph Sport has an ?

He also needs to insert into his team something closer to the ‘win at (virtually) all costs’ mentality that seems to pervade the Chelsea dressing-room. Jose Mourinho is probably sufficiently smart not to countenance a sale to Arsenal but the addition of a character such as Petr Cech would be a game-changer. So too a John Terry, Diego Costa, Frank Lampard or Wayne Rooney.
Mertesacker, Mikel Arteta and Jack Wilshere are the closest in Wenger’s current team but there are not enough. The frustration is that Arsenal largely do now have the playing quality to compete with the elite. As Aaron Ramsey said, this season could also still end in success, particularly if they again won the FA Cup and finished in the Premier League’s top two for the first time in a decade.
Southampton's Morgan Schneiderlin has been regularly scouted by Arsenal
That would amount to significant progress. A huge rebuilding job is not needed. Two wins in Manchester since Christmas tell you that. So too a squad list that contains Alexis Sánchez, Mesut Özil, Danny Welbeck, Ramsey, Olivier Giroud, Santi Cazorla, Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, Theo Walcott and Laurent Koscielny.
Taken individually, there is also nothing wrong with the mentality or personality of the players. They are mostly diligent young professionals who are still maturing and growing into potential leaders. The problem has been the collective blend. Yet if Arsenal are to deliver when it really matters, it is this subtle but hugely significant imbalance that Wenger must redress. If he does not, further seasons of only very qualified success beckon. It would mean not giving his historic tenure as Arsenal manager the best chance to finish on the high that it largely deserves. That really would feel like insanity.

