Monaco v Arsenal: Champions League last 16 second leg: as it happened
By Alan Tyers
10:33PM GMT 17 Mar 2015
• Mesut Ozil 'not delivering in the Champions League' • Liverpool's Mario Balotelli in internet video rant • Ozil swaps shirt at half-time, risking ridicule • Arsenal out: here is Henry Winter's match report • Player Ratings from Monaco 0 Arsenal 2 • Five Things We Learned from Monaco v Arsenal • Video: all the key stats from Monaco v Arsenal
FULL TIME: MONACO 0 ARSENAL 2 (3-3 on agg, Monaco win on away goals)
22.35 Anyway. No place in the last eight for Arsenal. They gave it a good go tonight but, truth be told, the damage had been done in London. Thanks for following this with us. Goodnight.
22.30 Wenger quotes:
We knew that it would be tough to score three goals but we did not seize our opportunities. It's not a question of merit, it's a question of being efficient. We also made psychological errors in the first leg. Monaco were fortunate, we must congratulate them.
22.29 Hell of a shootout - you'll never guess who has scored the last kick! It's Fernando Torres. Kiessling of Leverkusen then had to score to keep his side in it, but put it over.
<noframe>Twitter: Danny Kelly - Penalty shoot-out fun klaxon!!! Sky Sports 1. Atletico Madrid v Bayern Leverkusen. Warning: contains Germans.</noframe>
22.20 And here is one of the things that Rob Bagchi learned from watching Monaco 0 Arsenal 2
Welbeck needs to work on his close control: For all Danny Welbeck’s qualities and the assist for the opening goal, too often his control lets him down. Oddly there is not much wrong with his first touch, it is his third that is too heavy. Three times in the first-half he cut in from the touchline, killed a crisp pass, pushed it ahead of his full-back and then knocked it too far as he opened his stride. Dribbling at pace is difficult to master and separates the great from the good but Welbeck is almost there until either excitement or nerves get the better of him. More haste less speed.
The rest of them are here... Five Things We Learned from Monaco v Arsenal
22.10 Here is how Henry Winter saw the game.
Arsenal gave everything here, gave absolutely every last drop of sweat, launching attack after attack, scoring twice but falling agonizingly short. At the final whistle, as their Champions League dream died for another year, Olivier Giroud sat on the grass, stunned. Santi Cazorla looked around, shaking his head. Arsene Wenger just walked straight off, struggling to believe such superiority had not punished a jittery Monaco more.
Giroud scored in the first half, Aaron Ramsey made it 2-0 with 11 minutes left, 11 minutes when Arsenal tore into Monaco. The home side’s coaching staff even took a ball from a ball-boy to try to slow the game down.
Ultimately Arsenal paid the price for their naivety in the first leg but they bowed out defiantly. Giroud, Cazorla, Hector Bellerin, and Mesut Ozil were all outstanding. As the players left the field, Ricardo Carvalho asked Ozil for his shirt and the German almost had trouble taking it off such was the sweat making it cling to his body as the Arsenal fans saluted their players’ gallant effort.
Read the rest of Henry's match report here
22.02 For those of you who have a real apetite for autopsies, here are our Player Ratings from Monaco 0 Arsenal 2
Here's a couple of tasters...
Santi Cazorla - Another industrious and technically impressive central midfield performance. Kept Arsenal on the front run and repeatedly released Welbeck while missing one volleyed chance of his own
Alexis Sanchez - Provided his usual vast energy but has lost the edge he had earlier in the season. Still unfortunate to be booked for diving when he might have won a penalty and then had a late header well saved.
But what marks did Jeremy Wilson give them? Player Ratings from Monaco 0 Arsenal 2
<noframe>Twitter: John Brewin - 2-0 win or not, Arsenal's last-16 showing was laughable this season. There can be little pride in repeating history as farce every year.</noframe>
22.00 And here are Five Things We Learned from Monaco v Arsenal
21.58 Arsenal out: here is the match report
21.56 "They were arrogant and complacent in the first leg, they just expected to turn up and win" - Paul Scholes is warming to his work.
21.54 Oh here's Aaron Ramsey. All together now, "no disrespect to Monaco..." he says, before basically saying that they were expecting to beat them, muttering about Bayern Munich and tough draws. You guys were beaten fair and square.
21.51 Stick around for a bit and we'll bring you the post-mortem.
21.47 Scholes: "Arsenal are a better team that Monaco, they should have beaten them. I thought he would play Ramsey from the start, he has been scoring and making goals of late and Ozil hasn't." Scholesy just cannot get enough of sticking it to Shirt Swap Boy.
21.46 Dixon: "In the five years they have gone out at this stage, no disrespect to Monaco but that's the worst side they've played (at this stage)."
21.45 Mertesacker: "They deserved it, they played much better in the third leg. We tried everything, we did our best, but it was not enough. Away from home, Monaco played much better. All our regrets are on the first game, but that was over. We could have scored more, but that's the game. One bad game in the Champions League and you are out, that's what is great about it."
FULL TIME: MONACO 0 ARSENAL 2 (3-3 on agg, Monaco win on away goals) That was, I have to say, the most Arsenally outcome you could imagined. All over them in the first half, score, then get the second with 10 or 15 minutes to go... and then sort of flap and fail to really threaten a third.
90+ mins: The ref's generously awarded five minutes added, but Arsenal not able to find a clear cut final ball or fashion a chance. Here's Bellerin though down the right. Oh, he has to do better with that cross there. Ickle Theo Waltrousers with a foul. Amazingly, idiotically, Monaco take a quick one and are caught offside. Arsenal stick it in the danger zone but Monaco clear it quite well and go down the other end... they manage to use up enough time and that is that! ARSENAL ARE OUT
90 mins: Arsenal showing admirable patience, they're camped in the Monaco final third. Stuck into the mixer, Sanchez (!) knocks it down for Mertesacker (!!) who tumbles rather theatrically in the area (!!!) but does not get a pen.
89 mins: Sanchez plays it forward to Ozil but he runs into a brick wall of Monaco.
87 mins: Frantic as Arsenal hunt that priceless goal. Gibbs has it down the left, pulls it across for Ramsey. Desperate defending from Monac as they block his shot. Sanchez effort also blocked.
85 mins: Dirar off for Elderson.
83 mins: Wenger's going for broke! He's taken off a left back and, erm, brought on a left back. Gibbs for Monreal. From the set piece Sanchez heads it (did he chest it???) at goal. Somehow the keeper claws it off the line, and Giroud has a chance to win it with a free header. He puts it wide!
82 mins: Now it's Ozil with a fine run, ended by a foul. Scott Syfert
There is clearly a ref-conspiracy, but it’s not just against Chelsea. Its clearly world football vs. English teams. This is so much bigger than we thought. We are behind the mirror now folks.
81 mins: Sanchez bodychecked to the ground but he gets nothing, the ref laying down the harsh discipline of The Boy Who Cried Wolf. Ramsey's into the box, great run. Stopped by a desperate tackle.
GOAL ARSENAL! They have Monaco under pressure, an excellent cross and Theo Walcott smacks it against the post. Noooo! The ball rebounds to Layvin Kurzawa who play a truly awful clearance right into the path of Aaron Ramsey. He shoots hard and low, the keeper gets a hand to it, but cannot keep it out and it is MONACO 0 ARSENAL 2 (Ramsey 79)
<noframe>Twitter: Dave Tickner - The sloping roof of the Monaco nets is almost enough to make me want Arsenal to win.</noframe>
75 mins: Sanchez really exploring his diving repertoire now.
74 mins: Soon be time for an outrageous refereeing decision that goes against Arsenal and gives them all something to focus on. Sanchez is making some bright runs and he's been chopped down. I fancy a "denied clear penalty". From the set piece, Monaco clear. Oh, corner. They clear that too.
72 mins: Walcott's in the game right away, chasing down a long pass with that great pace. Surely that's a backpass from the Monaco defender - right into the keeper's arms! Not given.
71 mins: Welbeck off for Walcott. Carrasco down the right, has the better of Monreal, dangerous low cross.
70 mins: Giroud putting in a man's shift up front, and is now blown up for wrastlin'.
68 mins: Berbatov subbed off. He walks off very, very slowly. Even for him. Ref pointing at his watch, pointedly. Withering look from Berba. Eventually he breaks into a reluctant amble. Bernardo Silva comes on.
<noframe>Twitter: #March4Buhari - "<a href="http://www.twitter.com/alantyers" target="_blank">@alantyers</a>: I have prayed &amp; fasted just to see arsenal out of this game. By the grace of god they will. <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23ggmu_mate" target="_blank">#ggmu_mate</a></noframe>
67 mins: Ramsey dances through a few tackles but loses it once he gets into the Monaco area.
66 mins: Hmm. Arsenal have lost their grip of this, and it's end-to-end bustling now with neither side creating much of great quality.
63 mins: Aaron Ramsey on for Francis Coquelin. Andrew Holgate:
You have to wonder what else "isn't for" Scholes. He looks the sort of man who only has mushy peas with his fish and chips. "Tartar sauce? It's not for me that."
Yes. Paul does not strike me as a man with a hinterland.
62 mins: Moutinho delviers a good ball in and Berba is dangerously close. Monaco on top in the last five minutes.
60 mins: Sanchez chops down Berbatov, that could well have been a second booking.
59 mins: Martial, who had a good first leg but has been quiet tonight, comes off and Carrasco comes on
58 mins: Monaco offering more in this half. Dirar is lurking and it takes an excellent covering header at centre half for Arsenal to cut out the cross.
57 mins: Arsenal have another freekick just outside the box, this time it's Santi, floated into the area but Arsenal cannot get onto it.
55 mins: Ooooh! Kondogbia with a powerful run, and he slips it to Dirar, who is flagged offside. Just. JUST.
More on the Ozil shirt swap here.

53 mins: Excellent freekick from Ozil, well tipped over.
52 mins: Kondogbia into the book for fouling Sanchez, and it gives the Arsenal a handy freekick on the edge of the Monaco area...
50 mins: Sanchez and Ozil get in a muddle and, rather embarrassingly, tackle each other.
48 mins: Ozil wins a corner. Arsenal cannot make much of it, but do get a chance to swing a second ball in. Koscielny jumps, but that's easy for the keeper.
46 mins: Right then. Can Arsenal do something remarkable? Monaco on the front foot early on, Mertesacker nreaks up an attack. Sanchez breaks, and Giroud has a very hard chance with a snap shot. Nowhere near.
20.45 Sanchez penalty incident - looks like it wasn't really a foul, probably not a penalty, but the yellow a bit harsh.
<noframe>Twitter: Paddy Power - If Arsenal don't qualify here, you'd have to say that the only reason for it will be Ozil swapping his shirt at half time.</noframe>
20.41 Paul Scholes on the shirt-swapping: "I don't like to see that. You do that in the tunnel afterwards, not at half time. That's not for me."

20.39 Meantime, another look at Welbeck's excellent strike, which came from a Giroud knock-down, and would have gone in had it not been for a block by Abdennour
20.38 Hoping to see Paul Scholes in off the long run about the shirt swapping.
20.34 Right. While we ponder an excellent half for Arsenal, have a read of this story. When I just tell you the first line, I am pretty sure you'll want to know more.
Liverpool striker Mario Balotelli has taken to Instagram to launch a bizarre attack on his critics.
Yes? Here.
HALF TIME: Couple of players swapping shirts. Ozil one of them. That really is the pits, isn't it?
44 mins: Excellent from Dat Guy Welbz down the right, Big Ron Memorial Lolipop. beats his man, hits a low cross. Giroud on the end of it but straight at the keeper. Barely an
43 mins: Cockers Coquelin with a hard tackle on Moutinho that made me go "Ow!". Looked kind of savage on first look but I think just full blooded attempt to win the ball. Fair 'nuf. Arsenal not so firmly on top in the last couple of minutes.
41 mins: But this might pin Arsenal back a bit. Sanchez has been booked for diving. He and Dirar were battling for the ball down by the penalty area on the Monaco right, there was the slightest of contacts and the Chilean ate dirt. Yeah, maybe a foul, maybe not. Sort of looked like he made a meal of it, if you know what I mean?
37 mins: Well then! That makes it quite interesting. And now a cross from the Arsenal left - fertile territory the night - and Welbeck lets rip. The ball canons off the lad Abdendnendeour I'll check how to spell that in a second, and drifts wide with the keeper beat. Abdennour.
GOAL! ARSENAL HAVE GOT ONE! Giroud sent clear, and SUbasic comes out for a good save. He gets a hand to it but it bounces up and hits Giroud on the back of the head. He had no idea about that, but it drops perfectly for him and Giroud, to be fair, tucks the chance away with a terrific finish. MONACO 0 ARSENAL 1 (Giroud 36)
35 mins: The boy Monreal with a wonderful run and a terrible cross.
33 mins: Very rare sortie from Monaco ends in what i guess you could call a shot from Berbatov.
30 mins: Monaco have done nowt, but for all Arsenal's dominance and bright play, they haven't really delivered enough crucial final passes.
29 mins: Giroud, who is asking for a card tonight, fouls Kondogbia. And now he's involved in a crunching contest with Wallace, nearly getting up for a header on goal but... not really.
27 mins: Were it not for the fact that the horse has galloped down the road a fortnight ago, you'd say that Arsenal are handling this stable door magnificently. Their front men link up yet again for a clever, neat move. Wallace cuts out a Sanchez cross.
24 mins: And now Welbeck has the ball at his feet in the area and is denied by some eccentric goalkeeping on the part of Subasic.
22 mins: Arsenal definitely onto something here. Monreal with a dart down the left and a cross is blocked. He wins a freekick. Delivered in, a flick on... erm, actually, it was a flick back by Abdennour who must be a relieved man to see the offiide flag up, because he accidentally played Koscielny in. The Arsenal defender hit the bar with a cross but, like I say, it was offside anyhoo.
<noframe>Twitter: dangerhere.com - "It has to be a conscious touch back so the flag is correct". Ya wha Clive?</noframe>
20 mins: That man Wallace again with a meaty tackle on Giroud, who was trying to turn and shoot after nifty link play between Ozil and Sanchez.
19 mins: Wallace has got his work cut out in that right back area, the Arsenal get a cross in and Cazorla tries an acrboatic effort that never really looked like troubling the scorers.
16 mins: Arsenal doing okay right now, Sanchez bright. Welbeck with a blistering run down the left, well cut out by Wallace. Andrew Holgate writes:
Great managers deliver, then deliver again, then deliver even more. They have a capacity to have a bad year but then the next they deliver. They also deliver trophies at the highest level, so European success is critical. Ferguson did this. Mourinho does this. Pep does this. Arsene doesn't. 8 fallow years and no champions league in his time at Arsenal. He's a good manager but he's not great. Still, Arsenal fans shouldn't get too upset. They never had Alan Ball as manager.
14 mins: Best moment yet from the Arsenal, Alexis gets down the right and puts in a useful cross. Giroud does very well to get up and head... just wide.
13 mins: Bono and the lads there, enjoying a night out in Monaco. I guess they're enjoying it.

10 mins: Well, any Gooners who were hoping that their boys would come out and give Monaco a roasting will be disappointed. On the other hand, a headless chicken approach might not be the way ahead.
8 mins: Moutinho himself takes the free but wafts it lazily into the arms of the unchallenged Ospina. Robert Stewart writes:
Alan, with one L. Looking at the almost empty ground in the photo reminds me of watching them play Hamburg in the late 90's. You bought your ticket on the night and could wander around the stadium almost at will, because it wasn't particularly full at any point. It was a very strange atmosphere. I hope it's better tonight.
As for "the boys" 3-0 would do nicely, followed by PSG. An early goal from Ozil would be great. (the helicopter is better than the taxi, back to Nice and home)
7 mins: Arsenal not able to get a lot going. Monaco playing the ball around comfortably. Coquelin has scythed down Moutinho. Looks to me like the ref is saying "next one's a yeller".

Come on @Arsenal...!!! I have great memories from this stadium...!! Believe..!! Yeeezzz! #monaco #twobritishrecords #MONvAFC #gunners #afc
4 mins: Hard challenge by Giroud on Abdennour. Looked a bit of a barge, to me.
3 mins: Excellent from Monaco. Martial gets down the left, good skill, dinked inside. Berba lay-off and Moutinho curls a shot not far over. Sanchez gave the ball away, which started the attack.
2 mins: Bearbatov running! He's caught offside. See? What a waste of effort running around is.
1 mins: But it's Arsenal who have the early possession.
19.45 Monaco kick off.
19.42 Yes! It's the Monacos!

19.41 And here are your hosts.
19.40 Wenger calm, bordering on the somnolent in his pre-match interview. "Football is undpredictable," he says. Arsenal, sadly, have been rather predictable in recent seasons. Here's how they will line up

19.36 It's a bumper evening for Alans. Here's Alan Hardy:
I just want to see Arsenal out of the Competition full stop. Any result will do Sorry guys!!!
And here's William Kalua with some very kind words. But William doesn't see much hope for the Arsenal:
It's always a pleasure to read your blog and I enjoy it immensely. This is mission impossible for Arsenal, they let themselves down in the first leg. Wenger will never triumph in Europe with Arsenal. They are too open and tactically clueless for the big occasions.
19.34 Petit on Mertesacker: "It's not that your motivation drops the season after you win the World Cup... it's that you are physcially and mentally tired. Psychologically winning the WC takes so much out of you. And physically, you have not had a proper break." Good insight.
19.33 Dixon: "Even if they get to halftime at 0-0 it's not all over for Arsenal. They have the players to score three goals... but they also have the players to put in a performance like we saw in the first leg."
19.32 Manu, Lee Dixon and Media Chatterbox Paul Scholes are all taken aback that Ramsey has not made the XI.
19.31 Goodness gracious! Sacre bleu! It's Manu Petit.

19.27 Looks a nice enough place, Monaco. Fierce boring, I should imagine. What is life like there for non-wealthy folk? You only ever hear about the yacht crowd.

19.25 Can Arsenal do this? I don't see why not. Monaco didn't look THAT good.
19.20 Emmerdale now! A kitchen. A lady in a faded pink sweater. Woah there sweater lady! Easy with the bending over the table right in front of the camera. Nearly gave everyone quite the eyeful. Some people come in. There's arguing. Aaaand scene. Man with a beard and a hoody now, he looks very upset. He's in what looks like a primary school. He has the beard of sad. Not sure why. Oh it's over. Well, tune in next time folks.
19.17 An email from Hugh Molloy. Or is it Mo-lloy?
Souness is pronouncing Monaco as Mon-aaaaaah-ko as many times as possible on Be-in Sports over here in Qatar. It's been about 20 times so far in the first 15 minutes of pre-game pundit chat. Is he right, or is it another Motson Scholes/Sholes moment?
19.15 A brief interlude there for a highly spicy naked burrito. What are y'all having for tea?
18.53 I think son ancien jardin might be "his former back yard!" #french #maybe

18.48 And here are Monaco: Subasic, Fabinho, Wallace, Abdennour, Kurzawa, Toulalan, Moutinho, Kondogbia, Dirar, Martial, Berbatov. Subs: Stekelenburg, Carvalho, Elderson, Touré, Matheus, Silva, Carrasco.
18.46 Here is the Arsenal team: Ospina, Bellerin, Mertesacker, Koscielny, Monreal, Coquelin, Cazorla, Welbeck, Ozil, Alexis, Giroud. Subs: Szczesny, Gibbs, Gabriel, Chambers, Ramsey, Flamini, Walcott
18.45 This is some really top work from JJ Bull about the similarities between Monaco in 1989 and Arsenal in 2015.
In 1989 Arsene Wenger’s AS Monaco side had what many perceived to be an “easy” European Cup quarter final against a supposedly weak Galatasaray. Over two legs Monaco lost 2-1 with many of the tactical decisions made by Wenger extremely similar to modern day Arsenal.
Now faced with the uphill task of recovering a 3-1 defeat against a Monaco side thought to have been the easiest pick of the draw, have Wenger’s lessons in Europe ever actually taught him anything? And how is he likely to approach tonight’s must win game?
The very informed Arsespeak.com has a very in-depth analysis of the 1989 European Cup first leg tie which you can read here. As they note, the Monaco formation that the then 39 year old Wenger usually employed in European matches looked something like this:

und

18.40 The brains trust at Project Babb have beeen busy. Find out who they think is the Premier League's most effective midfielder on current form.
18.37 Team news must be due pretty shortly. I will bring you it as soon as ever I can.

18.30 Email from Damian Durrant. Alright Damian?
Alan, the Wengerian sleight of hand grows more tiresome with the decades. If the team were "naive", "suicidal" etc. wasn't that evident from the sideline? Why didn't he get off his £6M a year bottom and do something about it over the course of 90 minutes and a 20 min half time? He talks about the team like it was "other", someone else's he just happened to be watching helplessly. Its his team and I am sure he will take plenty of credit today if they pull it off.
18.25 Interesting piece on former Arsenal hero Cesc.
Only three months ago Arsene Wenger was inundated with questions about Cesc Fabregas. Why had the Arsenal manager not chosen to bring him back to the club in the summer?
Was he regretting the decision? How did he feel seeing the Spaniard perform so well for one of Arsenal's big rivals?
Those questions have stopped recently. Whereas Fabregas was almost unstoppable for seven months after moving from Barcelona to Chelsea for £30m, he has been largely anonymous in recent games.
The man who scored twice and provided 15 assists up to the end of January has produced not one goal or assist since.
18.20 And more of this sort of thing, as well. You tell them, Gooner man.
<noframe>Twitter: Michael Gooner - Seriously hope Arsenal play with pride, passion, intelligence &amp; do the shirt justice. Nothing is impossible. <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23VCC" target="_blank">#VCC</a></noframe>
18.15 I would love to see Prince Charles give his views on football. "Per Merstesacker... ghastly carbuncle..."
18.10 We need more of this sort of thing.

18.00 It's just one hour and 45 minutes until the biggest match of Arsenal's season.
17.50 An email from Allan. Excellent name, sir.
Most respectfully, Ozil is not a Premiership footballer – correction not an AFC footballer – he lacks the stones to play for us when it really, really matters.
17.45 We live blogged the Arsenal press conference - so you didn't have to. Or something. Read how it went down RIGHT HERE.
Here, I mean. Read all the news from Arsene Wenger's media briefing ahead of Arsenal's Champions League last 16 second-leg match in Monaco
17.30 Arsene Wenger and Per Mertesacker on the first-leg fiasco
Arsène Wenger called his players many things after the earthquake of a 3-1 Champions League defeat by Monaco at the Emirates Stadium three weeks ago. The Arsenal manager said they were “naive” and “suicidal”. He felt that they had let their hearts rule their heads. He also admitted that they had lost both their “nerve” and “rationality”.
What Wenger has firmly rejected since, however, is any suggestion that Arsenal somehow lacked desire.
It was surprising, then, to hear Per Mertesacker offer what felt like a rather different perspective upon the team’s arrival on the French Riviera for the second leg on Tuesday night.
“We know that first leg we weren’t really up for it mentally,” the German defender said. “From the start you could feel that and, at times, we could feel that there was a bit of a pressure and we couldn’t cope with that.”
17.20 This game's even got a hashtag and everything. #MiracleInMonaco
17.15 And here's Jeremy with a forensic examination of Mesut Ozil.
With just two assists and no goals in his past nine European games for Arsenal, Mesut Ozil is struggling to scale the peaks of his excellent start.
Rewind 17 months to Mesut Ozil’s first Champions League game at the Emirates Stadium and the only possible conclusion was that Arsenal had signed a player that could elevate them back into Europe’s elite.
Napoli were the opponents and their manager Rafael Benitez was gracious enough to conclude that the 2-0 scoreline was actually more flattering to his beaten players than what he called their “perfect” opponents.
Ozil was the difference that night, scoring one and creating another to continue what had been an excellent start to his Arsenal career. How Arsene Wenger must crave a performance of similar stature tonight from a player who, at £42.5 million, remains the second most expensive in the history of English football.
Read more of Mesut Ozil is the high quality oil in Arsenal's slick machine but he is not delivering in the Champions League here
17.05 The wizard Jeremy Wilson is having a busy one. Read his How Arsenal can beat Monaco in the Champions League here.
17.00 You bet I will! Hello everyone. Welcome to our 12-inch blog of the Arsenal's Monte Carlo Or Bust operation.
========
13.00 Alan Tyers will be here in a few hours to talk you through Arsenal's attempt to pull off one of the greatest Champions League comebacks of all time against Monaco. Can they manage it? Stay here to find out.
In the meantime, here's Jeremy Wilson's take on the five things Arsenal must do to win tonight:
Get Sanchez running at Carvalho
Monaco secured their 3-1 win at the Emirates Stadium without three of their usual back four. The return of Ricardo Carvalho is regarded as especially significant but, while Almamy Touré is vastly less experienced, his pace was important in the first leg. Carvalho will feel confident of containing Olivier Giroud, but may be more concerned by Alexis Sánchez, Danny Welbeck or Theo Walcott running at him. Arsenal must allow their best runners to test the 36-year-old.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contain Moutinho and Berbatov
The focus might have been on how Arsenal can score three goals but they know they will be punished if they leave either Joao Moutinho or Dimitar Berbatov too much space. Francis Coquelin is key as the one defensive midfielder but communication will be vital and, whether it is Aaron Ramsey or Santi Cazorla next to him, the attacking threats of Monaco must not be forgotten.
Dimitar Berbatov scored in the first leg at the Emirates Stadium (Credit: PA)
- Mertesacker admits Arsenal were mentally lacking in Monaco defeat - Wenger's return stirs up old ghosts ahead of second leg - Wenger: We can do something special in Monaco
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gamble on attacking full-backs
One of the big problems of the first leg was how Arsenal, for all their possession, failed to create clear chances and lost their width. Danny Welbeck and Alexis Sánchez prefer to cut inside, so Monaco only had to defend the central area of the pitch. Arsenal must be cautious in how they encourage their full-backs to push forward but, in Kieran Gibbs and Hector Bellerin, they have the pace to cause Monaco problems out wide.
Hector Bellerin has the pace to cause Monaco problems (Credit: REX FEATURES)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Be ready to use the full squad
One familiar frustration for Arsenal fans is the predictability of how Arsène Wenger uses his substitutes. The first changes rarely arrive much before the 60th minute. There is no need to panic early but, equally, Arsenal must not become predictable as they did in the first leg. Wenger has a squad brimming with attacking variation – Danny Welbeck and Theo Walcott may well start on the bench – and he should be ready to surprise Monaco and change his system.
Danny Welbeck could cause trouble coming off the bench in Monaco (Credit: PA)

