http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568759/s/440ffe5e/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Csportvideo0Cformulaonevideo0C114496570CWho0Ewins0Eon0EMartin0EBrundles0Eultimate0EF10Ecircuit0Bhtml/story01.htm
Who wins on Martin Brundle's ultimate F1 circuit?
By Daniel Johnson
9:17AM GMT 05 Mar 2015
Comments
Martin Brundle isn’t impressed. The ex-Formula One driver and now pundit has seen me scupper his hope of setting the fast lap on the ultimate grand prix circuit for the umpteenth time. “You’ve gone off again!” he exclaims.
You can’t remove the competitive animal from a racing driver, I suppose. At least no-one was injured and no car was damaged, apart from the slight scratch to the paintwork.
For the victor in our race on this 44-corner circuit, incorporating the most iconic corners on the calendar, from Eau Rouge at Spa to Copse at Silverstone, was determined not by car control but by one’s dexterity with your index finger.

Yes, this one-sided contest was played out on an enormous, nine metre by nine metre Scalextric track, at a cool cost of £10,000 (the cost was split 50-50 between Sky and Scalextric, but only Sky could construct something like this simply to promote the season ahead).
Drivers' union demands Alonso answers
Alonso 'thought he was in back in 1995'
“It’s an anticlockwise, figure-of-eight track, and it features a corner from every circuit on the calendar – assuming of course the German Grand Prix happens,” Brundle tells me. “It’s one of those things which will get people talking. Everyone has their favourite corners or favourite tracks. My son has already had a go at me for my choice of corners. Everyone will probably think I’ve chosen the wrong corners.
Daniel Johnson and Martin Brundle go head to head
“As racing drivers do, you could drive every track. I drove every track in my mind, and thought, ‘that’s got to be in, and that’s got to be in.’”
With some circuits, that’s not such an easy task. If I were Brundle, I would have pleaded to miss out Abu Dhabi altogether, but he did at least manage to find the “one decent corner” at Sochi for the Russian Grand Prix.
“Can you imagine going uphill the first corner at the Circuit of the Americas, then going into the Senna ‘S’, then into Copse, Becketts, and then up the hill to Casino Square?” Brundle says. “It would be unbelievable.”
The only debate left is which country would Brundle have it in? “The Maldives”. The winter break still hasn’t worn off just yet.
Given my comparative proximity to childhood, I had been hoping to have the edge of the former McLaren and Tyr relldriver, but alas, I was hopeless. While my best lap took 41 seconds, Brundle was almost twice as fast. He was going serenely round and round, while I continually crashed into Montreal’s wall of champions, spinning at China’s hairpin not long after.
I quickly deployed the classic racing driver excuses (I had the slower car, and was on the tougher line) but it was no use. Fiercer opposition is to come. “It’s going to get competitive with me, Johnny [Herbert] and Damon [Hill].”
All that’s left is for Bernie Ecclestone, Formula One’s ringmaster, to build the life-size version. “If somebody else paid for it I’m sure he would think about it,” Brundle jokes.
Sky Sports F1® is the only place fans can watch all 20 Grands Prix™ weekends live across TV, Sky Go and NOW TV
