<<<<<<< HEAD
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/672978/s/42c2be7d/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cengland0C113728120CGrim0Eand0Ebloody0Ebackdrop0Eto0EChelseas0Epursuit0Eof0EShakhtars0EDouglas0ECosta0Bhtml/story01.htm
=======
>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
Grim and bloody backdrop to Chelsea's pursuit of Shakhtar's Douglas Costa
By Paul Hayward, Chief Sports Writer
5:46PM GMT 27 Jan 2015
Comments
With 500 days to go until Euro 2016 in France they are dispensing “humanitarian aid” at the most dazzling venue at Euro 2012. Above the hand-out points at the Donbass Arena, engineers were still repairing the damage from shelling in October.
Two and a half years ago, England trailed cologne through the freshly built Donetsk airport, a symbol of Ukraine’s readiness to co-host a European Championship. In the group game against France, Russians dressed as England fans out of “respect for English hooliganism”, according to supporters of Roy Hodgson’s side. The wonderful 53,000-seat arena shimmered and throbbed with noise.
If you read about Shakhtar Donetsk this week, it is probably because Chelsea wish to extricate another of their many Brazilian imports: this time, Douglas Costa, who reportedly wants Shakhtar to lower their asking price from £30 million so he can escape the war for a new life at Stamford Bridge.
Invariably in football, all roads lead back to the question of which player is going where, and for how much. In the case of Donetsk, a grim and bloody backdrop is conveniently ignored.
As Costa was pleading with his bosses, and aid was being handed out at a ground now too unsafe to play in, Ukrainians were studying aerial shots of the destroyed Sergey Prokofiev International Airport and comparing it to “Stalingrad”. England fans and those of Premier League clubs who have seen European action in Donetsk will remember the calmness of that aviation hub in the Donbass region, famed for its Stakhanovite miners and Czar-like oligarch, Rinat Akhmetov, whose incredible wealth ($13billion, according to Forbes), was no defence against the “wave blast” that passed through his stadium last October, causing parts of the roof to “jump” 20-30 centimetres.
Does poverty fuel Brazil's drive?
FA to host 2018 Euro youth cup
Defoe: I was devastated by World Cup snub
Defoe hailed as 'perfect signing'
Akhmetov was forced to dispatch Shakhtar to Lviv, where they now play in exile, and to a base in Kiev. On a recent tour of Brazil their captain, Darijo Srna, said: “There’s now a great war. We are waiting for the day when we can go back home and get back to playing at our stadium with our fans. We are waiting for peace. Now we play games in Lviv at a beautiful stadium, but it cannot be compared to the Donbass Arena.”
That amphitheatre was built to connect all modern football’s strands. It cost $400 million and was designed by Arup, who also conceived the City of Manchester Stadium (now the Etihad), the Allianz Arena in Munich and the Bird’s Nest in Beijing. Football in eastern Europe was trying to forge an aesthetic and financial link to the great cathedrals of England, Germany, France and Spain: with appropriated former Soviet wealth, diverted there by Akhmetov, whose former business associate, Akhat Bragin, was accused by local police of having connections to organised crime and was killed in an explosion at a Shakhtar match in 1995.
By any standards this is an extraordinarily dystopian tale, which Uefa bought into by sending half of Euro 2012 to Ukraine. Often I think of the many trips we undertook during that tournament to Donetsk, with its downtown statue of Lenin, where three group games, a quarter-final and semi‑final were staged amid much razzmatazz. There was never any sense back then that Russians and Ukrainians were anything but peacefully co-existing neighbours in a stable post-Soviet state.
But Ukraine’s moves towards greater co-operation with the West set in motion a long train of events that turned Costa’s 'home’ town into a war zone, with an airport defended by pro-Kiev fighters known by Ukrainians as “Cyborgs” for their courage in repelling Russian separatists. That fight now seems to be lost, with the great memorial to Prokofiev reduced to dust.
In this terrible context it hardly matters where Costa plays his football. Yet Shakhtar, from where Willian also moved eventually to Chelsea, remains a conduit and showcase for Brazilian talent. Thirteen of the 28 players now performing in Lviv are from the land of jogo bonito. Ten, including Costa, are listed as midfielders.
An intriguing sub-plot of the Douglas Costa saga was that Akhmetov has now apparently thrown his lot in with the Ukrainian government in Kiev after Russian separatists believed he was in their camp. Roman Abramovich, a close Vladimir Putin ally, might therefore need some kind of Kremlin approval before sending another £20 million to £30 million Akhmetov’s way. The two oligarchs were chummy at Euro 2012.
Yes, Euro 2012, that mirage of new frontiers, in which a plutocrat in a Ukrainian mining town thought he had built a beacon stadium that would buy him access to Europe’s elite and the vast revenues of Champions League action. When we watch Willian – or Costa, wherever he ends up – we might spare a thought for those left behind in Donetsk: victims, still, in the power games of others.
Hooray for Murray’s age and treachery
Fausto Coppi’s promise that “age and treachery will overcome youth and skill” was apposite in Andy Murray’s bracing straight-sets win against Nick Kyrgios at the Australian Open.
Until now it has been hard to think of Murray as a cunning statesman of tennis. The impression of his early studenty vulnerability took a long time to shift. But there was real mastery in the way he defused the threat posed by the 19-year-old Kyrgios. What is the point, Murray might have asked himself before the match, of accumulating so much experience only to let a young punk to please the crowd at your expense?
It earned Murray a semi‑final shot at Tomas Berdych, who knocked out Rafael Nadal. “He was way too good for me,” admitted Kyrgios, for whom youth and skill are still not quite enough. It was pleasing to see Murray control the court, assert his authority, retain composure and pick his shots with the shrewdness of a potential Australian Open winner.
Sticking a logo on yourself is one thing (the much-debated 77 brand, with its “heraldic cues”). Sticking a performance like this on a local upstart is far more striking. Murray is still only 27 but has never looked more mature. Hooray for age and treachery.
Delph’s loyalty looks real deal
Take the modern footballer‑chases-pay-rise story, flip it on its head and you end up with Fabien Delph, who has signed a new 4½-year contract at Aston Villa despite being chased by top-six clubs.
Even his team-mates could hardly believe that Delph had chosen to stay at Villa Park, the stage for a relegation struggle. “As soon as I told some of them, they looked at me shocked to start with,” Delph said. This complete reversal of the usual narrative prompts you to look for conspiracies. Has some deal been struck where Villa will now receive a higher transfer fee and Delph is remunerated accordingly?
On the surface it is all about loyalty. “I see them [his team-mates] as family, brothers,” Delph said. “I’d run through a brick wall for them.” The back page is upside down.
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
