England v Denmark: Luke Shaw nudges ahead of Ashley Cole
By Alan Smith, at Wembley Stadium
10:42PM GMT 05 Mar 2014
Comments
Of all the decisions facing Roy Hodgson, this one might occupy him longer than any. Who to pick as back-up to Leighton Baines as England's left-back? Ashley Cole, a vastly experienced competitor, one of the world’s best full-backs for a good decade? Or Luke Shaw, an up-and-coming prospect brimming with talent and promise?
Based purely on achievement, this would be a no-brainer. Cole’s dependability in high-pressure competition would see him on the plane to Brazil without a moment’s thought. No Englishman in history has ever played as much football in major tournaments, missing only 16 minutes in 22 appearances.
But the fact he has become second choice at Chelsea this season, with Jose Mourinho much preferring Cesar Azpilicueta, points to the waning of Cole’s once considerable powers. His pace, mobility and ability to get about the pitch has inevitably taken a hit in his 34th year.
Wednesday night’s outing against Denmark was therefore a chance, Hodgson’s last before naming his provisional squad, to take a close look at Cole’s condition. It did not look bad either in a first half that, admittedly, hardly tested his defensive resolve.
Cole was much busier on the front foot in trying to offer width and support, mostly behind the lively Raheem Sterling. A few forward bursts on the overlap saw Cole enjoying himself in familiar territory. One, in fact, should really have ended with a goal when his low cross somehow evaded Sterling’s touch.
Sturridge heads anaemic England to victory
England v Denmark ratings
England v Denmark: as it happened
Liverpool – your country needs you
Five things we learnt from Wembley win
This was classic Cole, timing his moment, giving Wayne Rooney a shout to slip him in before delivering a dangerous ball.
As it happens, Shaw has built his reputation this season along similar lines. The 18-year-old’s contribution to Southampton’s success has maintained a high standard week after week.
That did not stop him looking nervous - understandably so - as he waited to come on for the second half. A hug from clubmate Adam Lallana and an ‘all the best’ from Michael Carrick preceded 45 minutes he will never forget.
And after a dodgy first touch acted as introduction, Shaw soon settled down to the task in hand, latching on to Steven Gerrard’s raking pass before twice seeing off the challenge of Peter Ankersen.
Even better was to come when Shaw sprinted forward to latch on to Sterling’s through ball. Just like Cole’s, his driven cross deserved better than the harmless outcome.
Encouragingly, he did not seem intimidated by the situation. First cap or not, the teenager’s temperament was serving him well - food for thought, clearly, for Hodgson on the bench. If the boss did not need proof of Shaw’s ability, he did need to see how the occasion was handled.
The answer was confidently enough. First impressions suggest that, just like Lallana, this product of Southampton’s Academy will not shrink into his shell wearing the Three Lions. For anyone looking for conclusions, you might say this shoot-out ended 1-1. Neither Cole nor Shaw was forced to do much defending and both did their bit when England attacked.
Hodgson has now got to weigh up the problems facing Cole should the situation at Stamford Bridge remain the same. Come May, how sharp would he feel? If asked, could he quickly pick up the tempo required?
That is hard enough in club football. From personal experience, I sometimes needed a good few games to regain match fitness, never mind hit the heights in terms of form. Unfortunately, the international stage does not grant such luxury. Your team could be out of the tournament by the time some kind of rhythm starts to return.
That is what makes Hodgson’s dilemma so awkward. To a degree, he would be taking a punt whoever he chooses. Imagine, for instance, Baines tweaking a muscle in training the day before England’s opening World Cup game against Italy to thrust the understudy into action. Shaw has got to be ready for that. Then again, so has Cole.
Over to you Roy. For what it is worth, the younger man would get my vote. Time to prepare for a future in which Shaw should shine.

