Giants sign former Pierre-Paul teammate George Selvie
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) -- The New York Giants are cornering the market on defensive ends from South Florida.
Less than a month after designating two-Pro Bowler Jason Pierre-Paul as their franchise player, the Giants on Friday signed his former USF teammate George Selvie as a free agent.
Contract terms were not immediately available.
''I think that's a great pickup,'' Pierre-Paul said. ''He's a good player. George can play the run and rush the passer. From the film I've watched, he's gotten better as a player.''
Selvie and Pierre-Paul played at South Florida in 2009 and it's conceivable they could go into the season as the Giants' starting defensive ends in September. The Giants released veteran defensive end Mathias Kiwanuka after last season and Damontre Moore, who will be entering his third season, still needs to improve. Roberts Ayers, the other defensive end, is coming off an injury last season.
The signing also reunites Selvie with defensive coordinator Steve Spagnuolo, who was his head coach when he was drafted by the Rams in 2010.
''I'm excited to be here,'' Selvie said. ''It's a great opportunity for me. And I'm excited to be playing with JPP again, along with Spags. I'm excited for the opportunity to be here.''
The Giants are hoping to sign Pierre-Paul to a long-term contract before the season starts.
Selvie has played in 68 regular-season games with 29 starts in five seasons for St. Louis, Carolina, Jacksonville and Dallas. His career totals include 126 tackles, 13 sacks, three forced fumbles and four fumble recoveries.
Selvie played in all 16 games for the Cowboys last season, starting the final 13 at left end and both playoff games. He had 30 tackles, 3.0 sacks, including one against the Giants, one forced fumble and a fumble recovery.
The signing comes one day after the Giants signed former Jets defensive tackle Kenrick Ellis to shore up the run defense, which finished 30th overall.
''I've been through it before, so it's going to be pretty easy,'' Selvie said of switching teams. ''Spags drafted me in St. Louis, so I've played in his defense before. It's a 4-3 defense, and I'm excited about playing in it.''
Selvie and Pierre-Paul each played 13 games in their only season together at South Florida. Selvie started all 13, while Pierre-Paul had seven starts.
''We were on opposite sides, but we worked together,'' Pierre-Paul said. ''He's a dedicated worker, and I know he's going to work to try to get better.''
In addition to Selvie and Ellis, the Giants have signed running back Shane Vereen, wide receiver/return specialist Dwayne Harris, linebackers J.T. Thomas III and Jonathan Casillas and offensive tackle Marshall Newhouse as free agents since last week.

