<<<<<<< HEAD
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604282/s/42acb08a/sc/10/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cmen0Cactive0Crecreational0Ecycling0C11360A70A0A0CMeet0Ethe0Eman0Ewho0Eis0Etrying0Eto0Ecycle0Eover0E20A0A0Emiles0Eevery0Eday0Efor0Ea0Eyear0Bhtml/story01.htm
=======
>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
Meet the man who is trying to cycle over 200 miles every day for a year
By Jonny Cooper
7:00AM GMT 25 Jan 2015
Comments
2015 is supposed to be the year when a revered endurance record in cycling gets smashed.
The hour record is back on everyone's radar thanks to a tweak in the rules around the type of bike athletes are allowed to ride. Only nine people have held the record in the past 43 years - but now every cyclist worth his salt seems to be clamouring to better the 32.219 miles set by Matthias Brändle in Switzerland at the end of last year.
Two Australian riders are set to tilt for the 'Hour of Pain' record within the next fortnight. More exciting for the increasingly cycling-savvy British public is the tantalizing prospect of Bradley Wiggins trying his luck later this summer. (Another Briton, up-and-coming time trialist Alex Dowsett, was recently forced to postpone his own bid due to a fractured collar bone.)
However, while media attention inevitably zeroes in on Wiggins and the velodrome, 2015 might just be remembered in years to come for another record altogether.
Far removed from the fanfare and adulation of the pro cycling circuit, a quiet and humble man from Milton Keynes is hoping to shatter the oldest - and toughest - cycling endurance marker in the book.
Is this the end of the road for bike punctures?
Are gamified fitness apps about to change your life?
Does the north-south cycling divide exist?
On New Year's Day, three weeks ago, 40-year-old Steve Abraham set out to cycle, on average, over 205 miles every day for the rest of the year. His goal is to better the record of 75,065 miles set by Tommy Godwin back in 1939.
Godwin's record is as close to cycling mythology as you can get. Riding a heavy, steel-framed Raleigh Record Ace with four gears (it was state of the art at the time), the cyclist from Stoke pedalled through mile upon mile of Britain as the country slipped back into war with Germany. According to lore, Godwin dimmed his bike lights with tape during the blackout; at the end of the journey, he is said to have spent weeks learning to walk again before joining the war effort with the RAF.
"It captivated and almost scared me when I first heard about the record as a 15-year old," says Abraham, as he answers my questions between stolen mouthfuls of dinner after a typically long day spent in the saddle. "I didn't know who Tommy Godwin was, or who had done this incredible world record ride at the time, but I became fascinated by it and started to wonder if I could do it myself one day."
Abraham earned his endurance cycling stripes on Britain's tough Audax circuit, but it still took two years of dedicated preparation to get him ready to take on Godwin's record. Sleep cycles had to be trialled (he intends to survive on 4-6 hours a night come summer) and equipment tested.
Like Godwin before him, Abraham opted for a steel Raleigh bike (the Sojourn) - although he has modified it with triathlon bars to distribute the weight of his body away from his backside, and added a special Brooks saddle for comfort. Once fully loaded with water, food, and the three GPS devices that track and ratify his daily mileage, Abraham says the bike weighs around 30lb - roughly the same as Godwin's steed.
Steve Abraham, 15 minutes after starting his challenge on January 1, 2015 (PIC: Phil Whitehurst)
With 22 days under his belt at the time of writing, Abraham has covered 4,085 miles. That's well below his goal of averaging 205 miles a day (it works out as 185 miles) - but, importantly, he's tracking ahead of Godwin's mileage at the same point (3,464 miles).
"I plan to lengthen my rides as they daylight hours lengthen, which will give my body time to adapt to the mileage," explains Abraham. "I will be aiming for about 170 miles per day in winter and taking it up as high as 300 miles per day in mid summer. I will then hope to taper the distances downwards again going into the next winter".
To rack up the miles while avoiding the attempt-ending consequences of overtraining, Abraham is cycling according to his heartrate. "I aim to average no more than 110 beats per minute. I often average as little as 80 beats per minute on an all-day ride, so I am really pacing myself conservatively at the moment. As I get fitter, the same effort will produce faster speeds. I seem to be averaging about 16mph currently."
A quick back-of-a-fag-packet calculation suggests that must mean he's been spending over 11 hours a day on the bike so far. How is he managing to fit such a time-sapping effort into everyday life?
"I am going to be unemployed until this challenge is over," says Abraham, who used to work in a warehouse. "I get up around 4am at the moment. I eat, prepare my riding route [with the help of one of his crew members] and try to get onto the road by 5am.
"When I get home - or reach my host for the evening - my team has recruited a network of hosts around the country who put me up for the night whenever I travel away from Milton Keynes - I will eat first. Then I will spend the next hour or so preparing my bike for the next day's ride, checking my routes and charging my equipment.
Tommy Godwin celebrates his 1939 achievement
The new regime is already taking its toll. Abraham says that he's been surprised by the "raging appetite" he works up after only 50 miles of cycling each day, and explains that he's been losing around a kilogram of weight every week (he now weighs 70kg).
His right knee is also causing him pain - although he seems to be phlegmatic about its consequences: "It's not unexpected when you increase your cycling volume suddenly and don't give yourself any days off. I am managing it and waiting for my legs to strengthen as the weeks and months progress."
Of more concern is the small margin of error his daily routine leaves. "I must submit each day's ride to the adjudicators at the Ultramarathon Cycling Association (UMCA), or the day of riding will not count. If I miss a day I will fall 200 miles behind the planned schedule and I will have to continue putting in average days of 200 miles riding distance, whilst also catching up on the day lost!"
While confident of beating Godwin's long-standing record, Abraham is praying to the cycling Gods than luck will be on his side over the next 49 weeks.
"Success in this challenge is not just about fitness or determination, it's also about some good fortune. I have to avoid illness, injury and incidents in order to get through this.
"It's like facing all the pitfalls life can throw at you and finding your way around them."
(PIC: Jack Thurston)
You can follow Steve Abraham's day by day progress on his site .
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
