http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604282/s/3fb56a32/sc/10/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cmen0Cactive0Crecreational0Ecycling0C111778880C110Ereasons0Eto0Eride0Ethe0ETour0Ede0EFrance0E20A150Eas0Ean0Eamateur0Ecyclist0Bhtml/story01.htm
11 reasons to ride the Tour de France 2015 as an amateur cyclist
By Rod Gilmour
11:38AM BST 22 Oct 2014
Comments
in 2015
1. It's better than watching the pros
Helicopter vantage shots, random French travel facts from ITV’s Paul Sherwen, the peloton train winding its way through lush countryside, motorcycle cameramen frantically beeping horns to part fervent hillside crowds, the all-or-nothing sprint finishes ... Watching the Tour unfold on television is an annual marvel.
But it still doesn't come close to riding the actual route. Every year the Tour de Force charity event plunges along the course, just weeks before the professional event. Completing even one stage is possible, but doing the whole thing is the way to really experience life in the saddle.
Honestly, television makes the whole ordeal look harder than it is.
Is the Grid X the answer to body aches? Beckham thinks so
Sean Yates's guide to cycling the Tour de France
10 surprisingly good albums to cycle to
What it's like to cycle the world's toughest road route
2. It beats the Étape
Most amateur cyclists know about L'Étape du Tour, the Tour de France's official sportive, which takes place on one of the toughest stages of each year's race. It's a great event – but it's busy, and it's always tough going. Branch out! Tackle a couple of stages of flat countryside or venture deeper and do a couple of Pyrenees stages in a row at your own pace. Hell, try the whole lot.
3. The admin is easy
The Tour de Force offers something that's akin to gritty 5* service. When I first rode five stages in 2010 I feared that the admin side of paperwork and passports would tire me out. What was there to worry about? Leave your bags in reception in the morning; they are at the next hotel eight hours later. No need to check in or out; the only worry is remembering your evening massage.
4. It treats you like a pro
Tour professionals are rightly mollycoddled by their team support staff. You can experience the same thanks to physios, medics, route markers and mechanics who offer unrivalled support to the amateurs.
Finding a launderette on rest day or washing your kit in the bathroom is a small price to pay. Moreover, you can lounge around on these days, whereas Chris Froome and his team would have a three-hour training ride to keep their legs moving, plus a press conference on top.
5. It's open to everyone
Rank cycling amateur? Cycling alone? Looking for a corporate group event to tackle? This is a ride for you – but make sure you use the build-up months wisely. Plan out a winter programme and meet up on Tour de Force training rides. It will motivate your mind through a winter of cold training and you will enter the season stronger and less tired than you've ever been before.
Riders on the 2014 Tour de Force
6. It’s not a race
Those that peg off the front after the daily ritual of cycling the first 40km as a peloton are soon put in their place. This is not a cycling event for Tour wannabes. It is not intimidating; It’s inclusive and inviting. Men and women, old and young, are equally encouraged to take part.
7. It gives you an excuse to go to the bike shop
Cycling the new midlife crisis? I’ll hear nothing of it. Is there a better reason to buy a new road bike and cycling kit than completing stages of the Tour, one of the great sporting experiences? You will never have a better excuse to gorge yourself of equipment in your local bike shop – and then you get to talk about it all when out on the French roads with like-minded individuals.
8. There is reason behind the madness
The Tour de Force was set by the family of William Wates, who was killed on his gap year a few months before university in 1996. The foundation in his name raises money for disadvantaged children through some highly-inspiring initiatives across the country.
“It’s a family-run event and their commitment to the whole thing is what sets it apart,” says Rory Watson, who has ridden in two Tour de Force events. “They’re there on training rides, pub nights and then in France.” Get the picture?
9. Tour de Force camaraderie is folklore
At the evening meal every night, awards are handed out: a 'chapeau award' for an extraordinary bike-worthy moment; and a 'moustache award' for a "heroic, but ultimately stupid" occurrence.
On tougher stages, some riders might reach the hotel closing in on 10pm. Their welcome comes with a plethora of emotional chapeaus. As French newspaper Sud Ouest put it this summer, it is a Tour “so British”.
Pit stop: riders fuel up
10. It fuels dinner party conversation for months
Eyes widen from friends when you casually mention that you have completed multiple stages of the Tour. You can pick and choose your story too: the shock and awe of saddle sore, riding up a Category 1 climb in a hailstorm, leading out a group of 60 riders one morning, or being backslapped by merry Frenchman singing La Marseillaise.
11. The Tour de Force reunion party
“That shared experience is so deep,” says Monty Wates, brother of Will and who completed the whole Tour this summer. “It took me by surprise.”
You can only imagine the amount of red wine drunk ...
in 2015 and raise money for the
