<<<<<<< HEAD
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568364/s/44adfda6/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ccricket0Ccricket0Eworld0Ecup0C114890A460CCricket0EWorld0ECup0E20A150EMartin0EGuptill0Ecould0Ebe0Ekey0Efor0ENew0EZealand0Ein0Esemi0Efinal0Eagainst0ESouth0EAfrica0Bhtml/story01.htm
=======
>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
Cricket World Cup 2015: Martin Guptill could be key for New Zealand in semi-final against South Africa
By Scyld Berry, in Auckland
10:45PM GMT 22 Mar 2015
Comments
It is going to be a far bigger leap into the unknown for the winner of the first semi-final between New Zealand and South Africa on Tuesday than it will be for the winner of the Australia v India semi-final on Thursday.
Winning the World Cup final is something within the living and playing memory of India, who have won it twice, and Australia, who have won it four times. Four players remain of the Indian squad that won in 2011, and four of the Australian squad that won in 2007.
However, neither New Zealand nor South Africa have won a World Cup semi-final. The only global tournament they have won was the Champions Trophy in its earliest years - South Africa in 1998, New Zealand in 2000 - and none of those players remain, although Jacques Kallis nearly made it to this tournament.
• Brilliant Brendon McCullum leads NZ to brink of history • South Africa 'Klusener Complex' is being laid to rest • Pakistan left to rue dropped catches as Australia advance
So you do not have to be Freud or Jung - a famous pair of spinners around a century ago - to be fascinated at how New Zealand and South Africa will fare on entering terra incognita at Auckland's Eden Park.
This is the seventh World Cup semi-final, out of 11, that New Zealand have reached. Usually they have been ultimately let down by their batting, but was it a matter of psychology too? In 1992 a backwater mentality still prevailed. Their captain, Martin Crowe, was world-class, but others were happier at home.
It is different now. The Indian Premier League has taken into the big time Brendon McCullum, Ross Taylor, Daniel Vettori and Corey Anderson. When Vettori heard about his first IPL contract he was driving his car and stopped, stunned by the realisation that he would be rich. But the wealth of worldly experience has been valuable, too.
The value of Martin Guptill rocketed over the weekend in IPL terms. New Zealand woke up yesterday morning with Guptillitis, after his unbeaten 237 against West Indies.
The country learnt he was known as Two-Toes Martin, because his brother had run over the first three of his left foot with a fork-lift (the family business is a trucking company), but he would now be known as Two-Tons Martin, as the highest World Cup innings followed a century against Bangladesh.
Martin Guptill celebrates his double-century
It is very unlikely that Guptill will be allowed to bat by South Africa as he was allowed to bat by West Indies. His special strength lies in powering the straight ball pretty straight; his weakness - as with most batsmen but more so, because sometimes he does not get his front foot across - comes against the outswinger, in which Dale Steyn specialises.
Jerome Taylor specialises in it too, but was only given seven overs.
South Africa are buoyed by their quarter-final win against Sri Lanka, their first victory in a World Cup knockout game, at the fifth attempt. They are also the stronger for having played at Eden Park already in this tournament.
Just as pupils around Britain have been making foolish mistakes in their mocks, so did South Africa against Pakistan's three left-arm pace bowlers; but diligent pupils do not repeat their mistakes in their A levels, especially if their head teacher is the world's finest batsman in any format, AB de Villiers.
Faf du Plessis in action against Sri Lanka
Hashim Amla and Faf du Plessis opened the face of their bats and steered catches behind the wicket off Pakistan's left-armers. Against New Zealand's left-arm pace bowlers - Trent Boult, the leading wicket-taker in this World Cup, and Anderson - they are surely too good to do the same, except if New Zealand have mounted an imposing total and the phenomenon known as choking ensues.
England supporters will be tempted to want New Zealand to win their semi-final and the final. It is not just that they have been cricket's under-dogs ever since they were granted Test status in the late 1920s. It is not just that they have home advantage, and the Big Three of the ICC - Australia, England and India - have made sure that nobody else will have home advantage in the scheduled future apart from themselves.
It is also a question of Martin Crowe - New Zealand's captain the last time they co-hosted a World Cup - being seriously ill with terminal cancer. He had the most beautiful footwork of any modern batsman.
Graham Gooch has told of how he was fielding at mid-on and mesmerised in the Old Trafford Test of 1994, when Crowe made a century, and the ball was driven past mid-on with perfect poise, only Gooch was intent on watching his footwork rather than the ball.
No less than that, Crowe kept the flame alive after he had retired, when coaches with preconceived ideas took over New Zealand cricket and imposed them on a whole generation of batsmen - and those who disobeyed were not selected.
Quirky theories that rejected the wisdom of the ages that Crowe preached as a prophet in the wilderness. But Crowe persisted, and is Guptill's batting consultant. For Crowe, a World Cup win by New Zealand this time round would make the perfect closure.
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
