http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568364/s/448ef393/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ccricket0Cinternational0Cindia0C114820A130CIndia0Ev0EBangladesh0ECricket0EWorld0ECup0Equarter0Efinal0Elive0Bhtml/story01.htm
India v Bangladesh, Cricket World Cup quarter-final: as it happened
By Vicki Hodges
11:25AM GMT 19 Mar 2015
• Pietersen: I will do anything to get back in the England team • Cook attacks ECB for sacking him as England's one-day captain • Trott, Stokes and six Yorkshiremen named in England squad for West Indies
INDIA BEAT BANGLADESH BY 109 RUNS TO REACH WORLD CUP SEMI-FINALS
11.35 Thanks for joining us today, a comprehensive victory and performance by India in every department. They really turn on the style when it comes to the World Cup. Who would you like them to face in the last four though, Australia or Pakistan? Here's Scyld Berry's preview for that mouth-watering clash which gets underway 3.30am GMT on Friday.
<noframe>Twitter: OptaJim - 3 - MS Dhoni has become the third captain to lead his team to 100 ODI victories, after Ricky Ponting and Allan Border. Steered. <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23CWC15" target="_blank">#CWC15</a></noframe>
11.25 India will play the winners of tomorrow's clash between Australia and Pakistan in the semi-finals. South Africa, who defeated Sri Lanka yesterday, will take either New Zealand or West Indies who play their quarter-final match on Saturday.
45th over: Sabbir has a last throw of the dice, hitting wildly and collecting three with a push out to the ropes. Rubel is on strike and faces a barrage of abuse. He's given the short treatment and only lasts two balls and goes for a duck.
Rubel c Ashwin b Yadav 0
Final man Taskin Ahmed enters at the non-striker's end. Sabbir opts against a quick single and stays on strike. It's all over though on the next as Sabbir holes out to square leg.
Sabbir c Shami b Yadav 30
That's it. India have won by 109 runs after Bangladesh are ALL OUT FOR 193.
44th over: Mortaza knocks a quick single off Mohit but he enters with Bangladesh requring 114 from 42 balls. With the final ball of the over he falls as he nicks one to Dhoni.
Mortaza c Dhoni b Mohit 1
That's two wickets in two overs. Rubel Hossain enters. How long will he last .192-8 (Rubel 0, Sabbir 27)
43rd over: Dhoni is still meticulously changing his field even with the match well in their grasp and Bangladesh running down the overs. Nasri has been a bright spark for Nasri, sweeping a four off Jadeja on the stretch and then drilling the next straight into Ashwin's hands at cover.
Nasri c Ashwin b Jadeja 35
Nasri was the first Bangladesh player to pass 30 as Mashrafe Mortaza comes to the crease. 189-7 (Mortaza, Sabbir 27)
42nd over: Nasir pulls Mohit to the boundary, through the gathered seagulls on the outfield and to the rope. The birds swoop over again and take their places in the field as Mohit fires down a bouncer. Nasir lets another bouncer rip through and then cuts one out to Dharwan. 179-6 (Nasir 21, Sabbir 27)
41st over: A rapid over from Jadeja but for the loss of five runs as Nasir strikes another boundary. 174-6 (Nasir 21, Sabbir 27)
40th over: Ashwin tries his luck from the opposite end. He looks to have got Nasir who mistimes his shot and the ball swings into the path of Dhawan. He fumbles again, seemingly his feet getting caught up and the ball slips through his grasp. He apologises to Ashwin who takes it well. 169-6 (Nasir 16, Sabbir 27)
39th over: Bangladesh require a run-rate of 12-ish with just 12 overs to go. Nasir pulls one to the boundary where Dhawan is. He misfumbles, but it doesn't prove too costly. The commentators start turning their attention to tomorrow's clash between Australia and Pakistan, knowing this one is well and truly over. 165-6 (Nasir 14, Sabbir 25)
38th over: Yadav, with a couple of wickets today, continues to put Bangladesh back in their box just as they appear to be gathering a little momentum and picking up the run-rate. Nasir and Sabbir pick up a single each. 161-6 (Nasir 11, Sabbir 24)
37th over: The India fans are celebrating like this game is all over. It very nearly is but Nasir is giving his side one final push and steers another boundary home to take them to 159-6 (Nasir 10, Sabbir 23)
36th over: Mushfiqur launches a big 'un on the first delivery of the powerplay. Dhoni is on it in a flash for an easy catch.
Mushfiqur c Dhoni b Yadav 27
Nasir Hossain is next out and up and running quickly with two quick boundaries - the second to the offside which flashes past the fielder on the ropes. 152-6 (Nasir 6, Sabbir 20)
35th over: Some tight bowling again from Jadeja restricts Bangladesh to their one single at a time approach. Drinks are called and the powerplay is looming. 139-5. (Mushfiqur 27, Sabbir 14)
34rd over: Yadav returns to the attack but gifts Bangladesh a free run with a wide, Shabbir collects two with a cut out to square leg and picks up another single on the next. Yadav wraps up the over with a good bouncer. 133-5 (Mushfiqur 24, Sabbir 11)
33rd over: Mushfiqur hits a slog sweep to the boundary off which leaves Jadeja looking puzzled. That's better from Bangladesh. 127-5 (Mushfiqur 23, Sabbir 7)
32nd over: The experienced Mushfiqur is trying his best to lift his side and is trying to lift the run-rate. Five singles are picked up and then a dot ball. Am improvement, but still well off the pace. 119-5 (Mushfiqur 16, Sabbir 6)
31st over: Mushfiqur hits over extra cover and into the gap, finally finding the boundary for the first time in nine overs. He's scrambling at the crease two balls later as the ball trickles close to the wicket and Dhoni sweeps up at close quarters. 114-5 (Mushfiqur 13, Sabbir 4)
30th over: Better play finally from Bangladesh as Sabbir attempts a sweep and manages to collect two runs. It's the only runs dropped by Ashwin, mind. India were 127-3 at this point. 107-5 (Mushfiqur 7, Sabbir 3)
29th over: India make another breakthrough as Shakib gives away his wicket, mistiming a cut into the hands of Shami at backward point for an easy catch.
Shakib c Shami b Jadeja 10
Sabbir Rahman joins and is a competent batsman but this match and Bangladesh's World Cup is slipping away fro them fast. 105-1 (Mushfiqur 7, Sabbir 1)
28th over: Shakib and Mushfiqur still try and play their ways in, but there's no time for tippy-tappy stuff they need to go for it. Another two singles and that's now SEVEN overs without a boundary. 105-5 (Mushfiqur 7, Shakib 10)
27th over: Bangladesh need to double their run-rate in the next 23 overs, otherwise they're going to leave them selves too much to do. Just two of the over, a run a piece isn't quite what the doctor ordered. 102-4 (Mushfiqur 6, Shakib 10)
26th over: The run-rate has dropped to 3.8 an over Mushfiqur manages to cut one which the sweeper on the boundary collects. They reach the 100 mark with another quick two. 100-4 (Mushfiqur 5, Shakib 9)
25th over: Ravindra Jadeja is brought on but can't quite find his range straight off, producing a wide and dropping a single. Mushfiqur is back on strike and finally gets off the mark 12 delivers in when he nudges one out to square leg. 95-4 (Mushfiqur 1, Shakib 8)
24rd over: Shakib manages a quick single to shift Bangladesh's total off the 90-mark. Ashwin sees out another error-free over. 91-4 (Mushfiqur 0, Shakib 6)
23rd over: It's so-far a complete performance from India as Shami throws down a rasping delivery which Mushfiqur attempts to drive through and looks on as the ball fizzes into the hands of Dhoni. Shami is the leading wicket-taker this World Cup, one ahead of Australia's Mitchell Starc after snaring Sarkar, and that's a second successive maiden. 90-4 (Mushfiqur 0, Shakib 5)
22nd over: A maiden from Ashwin puts India further in control of this quarter-final. Surprisingly it's been the short ball which has paid off for them today. 90-4 (Mushfiqur 0, Shakib 5)
21st over: Sarkar deals with one delivery into the body well, steering it over his head and over for four. Shami responds with a short delivery and tempts Sarkar to edge it to Dhoni who dives to his left. The India captain was delivered with that pick up, and he should be. The wheels could come off Bangladesh's reply now.
Sarkar c Dhoni b Shami 29
Captain Mushfiqur Rahim joins Shakib at the crease. They do have a great partnership, but is there too much left to do? 90-4 (Mushfiqur 0, Shakib 5)
20th over: Bangladesh are well down on the run-rate and just another three runs off the over won't help their cause. 86-3 (Sarkar 25, Shakib 5)
19th over: Shami restricts Bangladesh with a strong over, limiting the Tigers to just three singles and nearly pulling off an audacious caught and bowled attempt from Sarkhar. 83-3 ( Sarkar 24, Shakib 4)
18th over: Ashwin has two left-handers to bowl to now with Al Hasan's arrival but the first six is scored by Sarkar on the final delivery. They are just two runs off the pace compared to India at the same stage. 80-3 (Sarkar 24, Shakib 1)
17th over: Shami returns to the attack, uses the short ball well to tempt Sarkar to wildly hit out at one head-high delivery and misses again. His short-ball tactics finally pay off on the final ball as Mahmudullah swings and pulls at one, he makes a decent connection but he fires it straight to Shikhar Dhawan on the boundary who juggles the ball while trying his best not to touch the rope. It's given a quick referral to the third umpire, but he's a goner.
Mahmudullah c Dhawan b Shami 21
Shakib Al Hasan joins the party. 73-3 (Sarkar 18, Shakib 0)
16th over: Sarkar swats a delivery down extra cover for four as Raina is again giving a little treatment in his third over. The umpires calls for drinks. 71-2 (Sarkar 17, Mahmudullah 20)
15th over: Mohit mixes up his deliveries, luring Sarkar into a swing and a miss with a short one before following it up with a bouncer. Another short ball tempts Sarkar again, he takes a swing round his head but the ball drifts behind to Dhoni. The ball swirls in the air on the next as Sarkar doesn't quite time it, but it lands in space and that's just the two for Bangladesh. India were 70-0 at this stage. 63-2 (Sarkar 11, Mahmudullah 18)
14th over: It's a better over for Bangladesh, collecting seven runs off the over - all of which are singles and the first conceded by Raina. 61-2 (Sarkar 10, Mahmudullah 17)
13th over: Mohit's back in the attack after an over off but Sarkar takes advanatge, picking up a single. Mahmudullah takes a short ball on, hits high and down over mid-on, it falls inches short of a six but that's got them ticking again. Two more quick singles are taken, but they need boundaries, and fast. 54-2 ( Sarkar 9, Mahmudullah 10)
12th over: A change at the Members End now as a second spinner Suresh Raina is brought in to restrict Bangladesh further. It's a maiden first up and as you were. 46-2 (Sarkar 8, Mahmudullah 4)
11th over: Another change as Ravichandran Ashwin is brought on for Yadav. The off-spinner has taken 12 wickets in seven matches this World Cup. What damage can he do today? Sarkar steers one round the slip to collect another single, but it's a steady over from Ashwin. 46-2 (Sarkar 8, Mahmudullah 4)
10th over: Sarkar unorthodoxly lifts one short Mohit delivery up and over his head, sailing over Dhoni's too for his first boundary. A full inswinger puts Sarkar on the backfoot and brings out a soft appeal from Mohit. Bangladesh manage a quick single off the last, but India are well in control. 44-2 (Sarkar 6, Mahmudullah 4)
9th over: Yadav continues to keep it tight, Sarkar blocks one and then flips one out to square leg but he can't find a gap. Mahmudullah goes for a swing and a miss and that's just one off the over as they slip off the run rate. India were 47-0 at this stage. 39-2 (Sarkar 1, Mahmudullah 4)
8th over: Mohit is getting a bit of movement out there but Mahmudullah makes to connect to one outswinger and thinks about taking a quick one. He swiftly changes his mind. He's up in the running soon after as the right-hander cuts one which flies to the boundary. 38-2 (Sarkar 0, Mahmudullah 4)
7th over: Bangladesh have a run rate of 5.51, just short of what they require at this stage but the two lefties are starting to pick up the pace. Just as I write that Yadav thinks he's snared Tamim. It's referred upstairs where it's confirmed Tamim did nick it, only doubt is whether the ball carried to Dhoni. To be fair, he didn't look convinced that it was a clean take, but the third umpire is satisfied.
Tamim c Dhoni b Yadav 25
Tamim shakes his head as he makes his way off the field, he certainly wasn't convinced the ball carried. Soumya Sarkar comes to the crease and gets his team-mate in all sorts out trouble and that's a run-out. India have their second wicket in two balls.
Kayes run-out 5
Sarkar is caught ball-watching as he thinks about a quick run, decides against it but isn't aware that Kayes is charging down the wicket. He makes a quick turnaround, but he can't make it back to the crease in time and Yadav is on hand behind the stumps to whip off the bails from Jadeja. Mahmudullah is next out. 33-2 (Sarkar 0, Mahmudullah 0)
6th over: Change for India as Mohit Sharma is brought into the attack. Kayes lifts one over the slips but a man is on the boundary to collect but Tamim punishes the new bowler on the next, moving down the pitch and going for a big 'un which doesn't have quite enough to carry over the boundary but picks up another four. Tamim plays some high-risk cricket on the next two deliveries, the first falling to safely but the second landing just a few feet short from Suresh Raina. 31/0 (Tamim 24, Kayes 4)
5th over: Kayes finally gets off the mark on his tenth delivery, steering one through cover drive but it doesn't have the legs to reach the rope and he picks up three. Yadav steers out the over without too much fuss with good length again. 23-0 (Tamim 17, Kayes 3)
4th over: Tamim hits a first boundary for Bangladesh, striking straight back past Shami before following it up two balls later by smacking another four, this time and finding the gap on the next loose delivery to strike a third four of the over. 20-0 (Tamim 17, Kayes 0)
3rd over: Kayes swipes and misses to large groans from the expectant crowd and then is lured to chase down a short and bouncy delivery but wildly misses again. Yadav wraps up a maiden over with good line and length. 7/0 (Tamim 5, Kayes 0)
2nd over: Mohammed Shami launches his attack with a bouncer, but backs it up with a wide as we're shown replays of that final delivery from Yadav to Imrul. There was a big noise on snicko but India didn't give their appeal their full voice and Yadav wasn't convinced. Tamim collects another couple of runs to take his tally to five. 7/0 (Tamim 5, Kayes 0)
1st over: Tamim Iqbal blocks the opening delivery from Umesh Yadav but gets a quick two off the next down legside. Imrul Kayes tries his luck down legside but can't get off the mark. A mild appeal goes up on the final ball when he appeared to nick one to Dhoni, but the umpire isn't having it. 3/0 (Tamim 3)
08.07 Rohit Sharma who finished on 137 was happy with his day's work...
I'm glad we eventually posted a good total. It was important for me to stay as long as I could as we lost a couple of wickets in the middle.
"We knew the pitch was going to be slow and low and I wanted to take my time. After the rain break the ball came on nicely.
"It's a decent total. We know Bangladesh's batsmen cannot be underestimated, they have made scores of 290 and 300 in the group stage. We have to bowl really well and be energetic in the field and take some catches."
08.05 The omens don't look good for Bangladesh. No team has scored over 300 runs in the second innnings at at the Melbourne Cricket Ground in one-day cricket, no pressure then.
07.45 Welcome all to coverage of the second quarter-final of the World Cup as defending champions India take on Bangladesh in Melbourne.
We join the contest during the interval after India reached 302-6 off their 50 overs, opener Rohit Sharma hitting a century off 108 balls to revive their innings.
The huge contingent of Indian supporters in the crowd cheered on Rohit as he reached his seventh one-day international ton with 10 fours and a six.
Rohit had a lucky break when on 90 mind when he holed out and was caught at deep mid-wicket off Rubel Hossain but umpire Ian Gould signalled a no-ball for a waist-high ball. TV replays indicating it to be a legitimate delivery, mind.
Do you fancy Bangladesh to chase down the total and reach the semis? Email me at with your predictions
