http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569413/s/3fec0852/sc/7/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cfrance0C111940A120CFormer0EFrance0Ecoach0ERaymond0EDomenech0Emocks0EJose0EMourinhos0Einflated0Eopinion0Eof0Ehimself0Bhtml/story01.htm
Former France coach Raymond Domenech mocks Jose Mourinho's 'inflated opinion' of himself
By Telegraph Sport, and agencies
7:34PM GMT 28 Oct 2014
Comments
Former France coach Raymond Domenech lambasts Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho and former France internationals Franck Ribéry and Nicolas Anelka in his new book.
The book, called Mon dico passione du foot or 'My Passionate Dictionary of Football', takes readers through an A to Z of his experiences in the game.
He mocks Mourinho, pointing to the former Inter Milan and Real Madrid manager's beginnings in football as a translator. "That's the problem with translators, there comes a time when they convince themselves they wrote the text themselves," he says.
Anelka is described as a "Doctor Jekyll and Mister Hyde" character while Ribéry is treated particularly harshly. Domenech accuses him of having "forced the national team to put up with his bad character, even his acts of stupidity, in South Africa and afterwards, but since then, Sir is in a mood because he wanted to win the Ballon d'Or".
The former coach does not spare France legends, criticising Zinedine Zidane by way of comparison with Thierry Henry. Domenech notes how Henry was prepared to damage his reputation by committing the handball against the Republic of Ireland that led to France's victory in a World Cup play-off while Zidane's headbutt on Marco Materazzi in the 2006 World Cup final was selfish and costly. Henry "sacrificed his image for the benefit of the France team", Domenech writes, while Zidane "sacrificed the team's chances for the benefit of his pride".
Pogba rules out United return with new Juve deal
Gallas retires from football
Platini threatens retired Ribéry with ban
Rémy's strike halts Spanish hopes of revival
He also attacks former players now working in the media for criticising of current players that "they would never have tolerated themselves".
