<<<<<<< HEAD
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569413/s/3e27c907/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Ccompetitions0Cinternational0Efriendlies0C110A751730CFrance0Evs0ESpain0Eas0Eit0Ehappened0Bhtml/story01.htm
=======
>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
France 1 Spain 0: as it happened
By Robert Dineen
9:46PM BST 04 Sep 2014
• The next generation of Spanish superstars • Send your thoughts on the game to @telefootball and robert.dineen@telegraph.co.uk

Result: France 1 Spain 0
So, a deserved triumph for France, built on solid organisation and purposeful attacking play, suggesting there is still room for improvement in the exciting Deschamps project. Sakho and Varane were barely troubled at the heart of defence, Pogba looks an increasingly formidable anchor man and the attacking options run deep, with Remy making the excellent, match-winning contribution from the bench. As for Spain, though entertainingly cohesive in the first half, the lack of penetration that so undermined them in the World Cup was evident again. Even with Costa fit and Fabregas prompting, they could not summon one shot on target. That one statistic spoke volumes.
21.51 That's it. France win.
21.50 Is that fair? Is picking Costa forward thinking? Or should Spain revert to their strikerless formation? A debate for another evening perhaps. Benzema has just drawn a superb reflex save from De Gea from about eight yards out. By the corner flag, Pogba then wriggles neatly past three markers. The ball is worked to Cabella but he is dispossessed after taking his eye off the ball within clear shooting range. We're into stoppage time.
21.47 Phil Martin has emailed us: "Can't help feeling Spain playing Costa is a huge mistake. After all, they won three tournaments in a row, without a number '9' and Costa doesn't even seem to fit the passing style of play. Also, can't help feeling it's political as he is Brazilian and chose to play for Spain. Looks like he chose Spain on condition he was an automatic pick because I can't see any other reason they would select him."
21.44 Finally, Hugo Lloris is required to make a contribution worthy of inclusion in this commentary, the French goalkeeper getting to a through-ball just ahead of Alcacer.
21.40 Close! Pedro's time deceives the French defence and allows the ball to run through to Silva, who steals a yard on his marker, but cuts his shot across the goal from close in. Silva's added invention has made a difference to Spain, his movement and ability to find an extra split-second in possession troubling the France defence. With Cazorla and Fabregas replaced - sorry, I missed it - his team-mates in attack, however, are just not quite as good.
21.37 Not for the first time, Pogba channels the spirit of Patrick Vieira by striding out of defence while in possession, skipping free of several missed tackles. The young anchor man has similar physical strength to his great predecessor but, to judge by flashes of excellent technique this evening, is even better on the ball.
21.35 The move which just led to Pedro's air-shot typifies the marked difference between the two sides in front of goal. The French are bold and swift, the Spanish too often over-elaborate. Isco has replaced Cazorla.
21.31 Goal! Remy scores for France. An excellent goal. Valbuena, Benzema and Sissoko carve open the Spanish defence on the hosts' left flank and the latter cuts back the ball to Remy about 10 yards out. He sweeps his first-time shot high into the net. The difference between the two sides in front of goal could hardly be more marked. The French are bold and swift, the Spanish too often over-elaborate.
21.27 Silva probes around the penalty area, exchanging a one-two with Costa, but is blocked by a lunging French tackle as he shapes to shoot. The Spanish come again a few minutes later, again with Silva pivotal, but the French hold firm and force the visitors to move possession back to their defence.
21.26 French substitutions: Cabaye replaces Matuidi and Digne comes on for Evra. And for Spain: Alcacer makes his debut in place of Costa.
21.23 Close! Pogba, so often the central figure whenever France threaten a breakthrough, combines expertly with Matuidi, who feeds Valbuena inside the penalty area. He cuts his shot wide of the post when De Gea may well have been beaten. A minute later, Spain, always defending deep and in numbers, deal capably with a lofted Sissoko cross.
21.19 Goal-scoring is threatening to become a chronic issue for the Spanish, who scored only 14 goals in qualification for the World Cup despite emerging as group winners, and who were forced to rely on the unfit Costa in Brazil. Though cutting pretty patterns with the ball, they have done little more than flirt with the French goal this evening. Had Remy been more accurate with his first meaningful contribution, a cross, the visitors might even be behind, too.
21.15 Just as Spain try to inject more energy into their passing, Del Bosque decides it is time for a change, bringing on Silva in place of Raul Garcia. Deschamps also acts, calling on Chelsea new boy Remy to replace Griezmann. Immediately, Silva quickens the Spanish, exchanging passes firstly with his defence, then Costa and Fabregas in attack. Varane is needed to scoop a desperate clearance into touch for the hosts.
21.10 Cazorla tugs on Pogba's shirt, prompting a swiftly taken free-kick but the Spanish quickly snuff out the French incursion down the right flank, working the ball forward to earn a corner. The Spaniards' lack of height allows France to clear it with little difficulty. Happy again, the crowd have returned to performing a Mexican wave, prompted partly perhaps by the lack of fluency currently in both teams' performance.
21.07 Goal disallowed! Benzema converts another sweeping, incisive French move only for the assistant official to rule the forward offside, probably incorrectly, to judge by the replays. For Sissoko seemed to play the ball square from the right. The French whistles in the crowd touch an unpleasant frequency.
21.06 Ramos bundles over Griezmann 40 years out, a needless, ugly challenge that gifts France a free-kick when the Spanish were under little threat. The hosts work the ball across to the right and win a corner that triggers a scramble when the Spain allow it bounce. Varane attempts the difficult trick of heading a ball on the rise and can only ensure that it sails over the bar.
20.59 John McEnerney has dropped us an email: "France might sneak this, as Spain are missing quality all over the park. These games aren't a good barometer of how the top teams will be come the Euros. Do you think Germany won't qualify after losing in a friendly? No worries, the top sides will be there. Spain have the quality just need to find the right striker, Costa hasn't impressed at international level yet but I'm sure he will." Cheers John, a touch harsh on the Spanish to my mind, but maybe England lowered my standards (again) last night.
20.55 So, an entertaining 45 minutes, enlivened by the French determination to get forward as quickly possible - propelled by the vociferous host crowd - and the Spanards' persistance with their intermittently successful, short passing game. They look like a talented team in transition, already an improvement on the blunt Spain seen in Brazil but not yet the apparently telepathic tiki-taka masters of old, while the French resemble the confident outfit of the World Cup. Pogba, Fabregas and Cazorla, in particular, have stood out, finding time to impress in a claustrophic midfield with their vision, skill and quick feet.
20.45 Half-time.
20.42 Benzema floats across to the left flank and lofts a long cross in the direction of the unmarked Sissoko, but the pass fails to clear the last defender. Reprieved, the Spanish respond by quickly working the ball forward to Costa but he is crowded out and dispossessed. The other Chelsea man has made little impression thus far, despite Spain's superiority over the past 20 minutes. Playing alone up front has not helped him.
20.37 Benzema connects with a sweetly-timed half-volley from 20 yards but De Gea smothers comfortably, which might disturb Pogba from the conversation he was conducting with Sissoko at almost exactly the same time on the other side of the pitch, which is possibly the best example of laissez-faire football you are likely ever to witness.
20.35 Fabregas, playing as Spanish pivot in central midfield, is beginning to impose his influence on the game. He beats two Frenchmen on the edge of the penalty area only for the third to cut out his shot. A moment later, the Chelsea man finds Cazorla in the same territory with a typically incisive first-time pass. Cazorla, full of endeavour tonight and playing quite well, is tackled on this occasion.
20.32 Cazorla cuts out Debuchy's hospital pass to Pogba and skips across the midfield from the Spanish left flank, triggering a long sequence of Spanish passes. Slowly, patiently, they move forward, as a unit, until Cazorla has it again on the edge of the penalty area. He moves it across to the opposite flank and Busquets is released down the channel only to corrupt a fine move with a weak cross.
20.27 Sorry about that gag.
20.26 A Spanish free-kick from about 35 yards out. Koke takes a long time to decide on his target but misses San Jose by some distance - begging the question: did you not know the way to San Jose? - before the ball rebounds to Fabregas closer to goal. His shot is blocked and the subsequent corner wasted.
20.24 Oh, what a miss from Benzema. Pogba, this time, is faultless with his long pass from the right flank, close to the halfway line, but his team-mate badly mistimes his attempted volley and allows the ball to float comically through his legs.
20.19 What a difference to the cure for insomnia that England patented last night. Spain persist with their tight passing game, faltering only after several exchanges when Cazorla shows touch that is slightly too heavy. Probably it is too early for this new Spain team to show the understanding of their gilded predecessors. In response, France chose the more direct route again, reaching the perimeter of the Spanish penalty area only for Griezmann to attempt an over-ambitious through-ball to Sissoko.
20.16 The opening exchanges demanded that very modern football phrase, compressed midfield, but both defences are sitting now a little deeper, allowing Pogba and Valbuena to combine effectively on the right again. Yet again, however, Pogba miss his target, the onrushing Benzema, with his cross to squander another good opportunity - if found, the French forward was clear on goal. At the other end, Costa cannot quite connect with an attempted header from the edge of the six-yard box.
20.12 The Stade de France crowd are in good voice, roaring their delight at the Mexican wave sweeping the stadium which will host the final of Euro 2016. They enthusiastically welcomed their national team too when their arrived to the pitch, a sign no doubt that the team's relationship with fans has been fully repaired after the car crash-type campaigns that the French mounted at the 2010 World Cup and Euro 2012.
20.08 Benzema beats the off-side trap with a well-timed run back towards the defence but shoots too close to De Gea to trouble the Spanish goalkeeper. A moment later, Pogba spins on the edge of the penalty area and gifts De Gea another easy save. Already, after a cautious opening few minutes from both teams, the game has opened up and France look especially impressive, confident and purposeful.
20.05 Far more threatening is the two French incursions down the right flank, with Pogba wasting the second with a wayward cross. So far, so similar to the World Cup. Spain, pretty, ineffectual. The French, dangerous, although admittedly five minutes' evidence may be too little on which to judge a new era.
20.03 France retain possession neatly before squandering it in the far corner, creating the first opportunity to assess whether Spain will chose to stick to the tiki-taka style. The initial suggestion is yes, they will, as they set up a couple of triangles around the centre circle before attempting, unsuccessfully, to release Costa.
20.00 We've begun, France kicking off.
19.50 The Spanish will be hoping to impress sufficiently to earn a place in the team to face Macedonia in their first Euro 2016 qualifier on Monday night. By contrast, as hosts, France will go into that tournament without a competitive game in two years, other than their "centralised" friendlies against teams from Group 1, beginning with the game away to Serbia on Sunday.
19.47 Landreau, incidentally, quit the international game after the World Cup, has did team-mates Eric Abidal and Franck Ribery. Samir Nasri also withdrew his availability, albeit long after Deschamps had made it fairly clear that the Manchester City forward was not wanted anyway.
19.44 And the substitutes.
France: Mandanda, Cabaye, Cabella, Lacazette, Mavuba, Mangala, Sagna, Digne, Remy, Mathieu, Schneiderlin, Ruffier. Spain: Casillas, Albiol, Bartra, Juanfran, Alcacer, Pedro, Iturraspe, Jordi Alba, Silva, Isco, Casilla.
19.39 Right, so here are the line-ups.
France (4-2-3-1): Lloris; Debuchy, Varane, Sakho, Evra; Pogba, Matuidi; Sissoko, Valbuena, Griezmann; Benzema. Spain (4-2-3-1): De Gea; Carvajal, San José, Ramos, Azpilicueta; Busquets, Cazorla; Raul Garcia, Fabregas, Koke; Costa.
19.38 Bacary Sagna, the France full-back, dutifully played diplomat when interviewed about the game. "Spain remain one of the best teams in the world," he said. "They took a blow and will want to show they are back."
19.30 As for the French, coach Didier Deschamps has named a squad very similar to the party taken to Brazil. The few changes include goalkeeper Steve Mandanda replacing Mickael Landreau, Barcelona's Jeremy Mathieu filling in for the injured Arsenal centre-back Laurent Koscielny and Lyon's Alexandre Lacazette replacing Olivier Giroud, another Arsenal man, ruled out with a broken leg.
19.29 Neither Andres Iniesta nor Gerard Pique will play for the Spanish either as both are injured.
19.27 Those team-mates probably included Fernando Torres and Juan Mata, neither of whom made the squad for tonight's game. In rebuilding the squad, coach Vicente del Bosque has named five uncapped players, Real Madrid right-back Dani Carvajal; Raul Garcia, the Atletico Madrid midfielder; Valencia striker Paco Alcacer, Espanyol goalkeeper Kiko Casilla and Mikel San Jose, the Athletic Bilbao defender.
19.19 In fact, Costa, who was said to have carried an injury to the World Cup, admitted his shortcomings in Brazil to the Spanish media in the build-up to tonight's games, although he wasn't much impressed with his team-mates either. "I know I did not play to my expected level at the World Cup, and not just me, but the team," the 25-year-old said. "But what's happened has happened and now we have to move on."
19.00 Good evening and welcome to our live coverage of the friendly between France and Spain, the first game for both teams since their very different experiences at the World Cup. France, so good en route to the quarter-finals in Brazil, should look familiar to those who followed events over the summer; Spain will be quite different, given the men who retired after the ignominy of being eliminated after their first two games. So, no Xabi Alonso, Xavi and David Villa. Diego Costa, fresh from his barnstorming start to the season with Chelsea, is expected to play, and should cut a different figure from the forward who laboured through the World Cup.
FRANCE 0-0 SPAIN (KO 8pm)
Filling the midfield void left by the international retirements of Xavi Hernandez and Xabi Alonso is one of the biggest challenges facing Spain as they seek to rebuild following a shambolic World Cup.
With nearly 250 international appearances between them, the duo played a crucial role in a sustained period of success which saw Spain win two European Championships and a World Cup from 2008-2012.
Both stepped aside after the World Cup this summer, where Spain were beaten by the Netherlands and Chile in their first two group games to make an early exit from the tournament.
Spain coach Vicente del Bosque kept his job, thanks to the weight of his past achievements. But he has a tough task to retain the European Championship in two years' time.
Qualifying should not be too hard. Spain, who are drawn in Group C and opens their campaign against Macedonia at home on Monday, also face Ukraine, Slovakia, Belarus and Luxembourg.
First up, though, is a friendly away to World Cup quarter-finalist France.
France's coach Didier Deschamps, the fulcrum in midfield when Les Bleus won the 1998 World Cup and Euro 2000, understands how big a loss Alonso and Barcelona great Xavi will be.
"Of course some players have stopped, notably in the heart of their game," Deschamps said. "The whole of their game depended on them. They're quality players who were used to playing with each other."
Del Bosque is also likely to lean more heavily on Chelsea midfielder Cesc Fabregas, who has made a bright start to the season, while Arsenal's Santi Cazorla - who found it hard to hold down a place during Spain's glory era - can also stake his claim.
Join Robert Dineen from 7pm for live match commentary...
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
