England plan friendlies against Germany, Spain, Italy and France in build-up to Euro 2016
By Ben Rumsby, in Monte Carlo
10:30PM BST 28 Aug 2014
Comments
England have lined up glamour friendlies against world champions Germany, Spain, Italy and France amid growing fears the national team has become a turn-off for fans.
Alex Horne, the general secretary of the Football Association, on Thursday confirmed Roy Hodgson’s men were set to play a combination of home and away matches against the cream of Europe in the build-up to the 2016 European Championship.
England’s World Cup debacle threatens to yield the lowest attendance for an international at the new Wembley when Norway visit for a friendly next week.
The subsequent Euro 2016 qualifiers are just as unappealing, with Switzerland the biggest name in a group where England can finish third and still reach the finals.
Friendlies against big-draw nations in the next two years are, therefore, seen as crucial by the FA.
'Obvious choice' Rooney is England captain
Hodgson calls up 'Ginger Pirlo' Colback
Who Hodgson should have picked for England
Norway's 15-year-old stars on international debut
England could host Euros twice in eight years
Rooney will lead new England generation
“Home and away, we will be playing France, Spain, Italy and Germany,” Horne said following a meeting of Uefa associations in Monte Carlo. “We have got a set of friendlies to go with the qualifiers right through to March 2016 all arranged.
“It makes more sense to prepare for a European tournament by playing European opposition so we have put less of an emphasis on non-Europeans over the next two years.”
Horne admitted the signs for the Norway game were not good, with the FA in danger of having to keep the upper tier of Wembley closed.
“We are expecting 35,000-40,000,” he said. “It will be the lowest crowd we have had at Wembley. The average England gate is 79,000 so it is disappointing.
“We have got some work to do. We have to rebuild a squad, which is Roy’s department, and we have got to rebuild some trust with the supporters.
“We had 5,000 who went to Brazil and were disappointed, and we are working hard on what we can give them, what content, what price we can give them to make them feel part of the England experience.
“We have relaunched our England Supporters Club. We are aiming to get half a million members and ultimately attract a brand new audience to fill 70,000 general admission seats five times a year.”
- Rooney: Captaincy is beyond wildest dreams - Luke Shaw was warned over his fitness at World Cup - England plan glamour friendlies against Germany, Spain and Italy - England have post-World Cup depression, admits Hodgson - Four uncapped players signal new era for England

