Patrice Evra moves to Juventus from Manchester United as French fullback seeks new challenge in Italy
By Mark Ogden
4:43PM BST 21 Jul 2014
Comments
Patrice Evra has delivered a parting tribute to Sir Alex Ferguson after confirming his decision to leave Manchester United by signing a two-year contract with Juventus.
French defender Evra, who signed a 12-month extension to his Old Trafford last contract at the end of last season, has completed a move to the Italian champions for a fee that could reach £1.5 million following the signing of England full-back Luke Shaw from Southampton.
But after twice backtracking on attempts to leave United in recent summers following the personal intervention of Ferguson, Evra admits he owes a debt to the former manager, who signed him from Monaco in January 2006.
"After a great deal of thought I have decided the time is right for me to leave Manchester United,” Evra said. “It is the biggest decision of my career as this club is, and will always remain, in my heart.
“Joining and playing for Manchester United has been a privilege, a dream come true and my time here has been so memorable.
New signings are on the way, says Woodward
Van Gaal has been dealt an impossible hand
'Van Gaal has strength to make hard decisions'
United plan £90m January move for Bale
Liverpool and Man Utd hope to crack America
Van Gaal was polar opposite to 'terrified' Moyes
"(I must offer) an immense thank you to Sir Alex Ferguson for making it all possible, for giving me the privilege to be a captain, to be inspired by the legend of Manchester United and to understand that nobody is bigger than the club.
"This club is steeped in history and I feel privileged to have become a part of that.
“My passion for this club will live on and I know you guys will go on to enjoy more success in the coming seasons."
With Evra following Rio Ferdinand and Nemanja Vidic out of the Old Trafford exit door, and with Ryan Giggs retiring to take a full-time role as assistant manager, United are planning to make further additions to the squad before the start of the season having signed Shaw and Athletic Bilbao midfielder Ander Herrera.
Borussia Dortmund defender Mats Hummels remains a target and United executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward has returned to Manchester from the club’s tour of the United States for "general business reasons".
United manager Louis van Gaal takes charge of the team for the first time in a friendly against LA Galaxy at the Pasadena Rose Bowl on Wednesday evening in California and Wayne Rooney admits first impressions of the former Holland coach have been favourable.
“The first couple of training sessions have been good and everyone is looking forward to getting the games underway,” Rooney said.
"Any player will tell you the most important thing for the season is to get a good pre-season under your belt and that's what we're all trying to do.
"We've got a new manager with different ideas,” Rooney said. “We have to train well and listen to what he wants us to do and take that onto the pitch and show him what we can do.
"Of course, we all have to go out there and show what we can do and show every day in training what different qualities we have as players and a tea
“Everyone wants to impress a new manager and that's what we're aiming to do.
"But it has been good meeting the manager and the new coaching staff.
Van Gaal’s squad, which will be bolstered by the arrival in Los Angeles of Javier Hernandez on Tuesday, face a five-game tour of the United States before returning to England in two weeks’ time.

