Red Bull threaten to quit F1 after Australian GP failure
By Daniel Johnson, Formula One Correspondent, Melbourne
12:29PM GMT 16 Mar 2015
Comments
Red Bull’s dire start to the season has prompted furious demands for Lewis Hamilton’s Mercedes to be reined in and now a threat to leave Formula One in the space of 24 hours.
With Mercedes and Hamilton looking likely to be the dominant team again this season, after their emphatic victory in Sunday’s Australian Grand Prix, tempers at Red Bull have frayed.
The team who swept all before them from 2010 to 2014 have been withering towards engine supplier Renault, called on the FIA to slow Mercedes down, and now claim to be contemplating walking away from the sport.
The Red Bull cars disappointed at the Australian Grand Prix with Daniel Ricciardo finishing sixth
Helmut Marko, Red Bull’s motorsport adviser, who works closely with owner Dietrich Mateschitz, issued the threat through the Austrian media.
“We will evaluate the situation again as every year and look into costs and revenues," said Marko. "If we are totally dissatisfied we could contemplate an F1 exit. The danger is there that Mateschitz loses his passion for F1.

“These power units are the wrong solution for F1. We would say this even if Renault were in the lead. The technical rules are not understandable, much too complicated, and too expensive.”
This is not the first time threats have come from Marko with little consequence. It is also worth noting that Red Bull have a contract to remain part of the world championship until 2020. Their guarantee to Bernie Ecclestone, Formula One’s supremo, is precisely the reason why they have been granted so much influence and sit on the sport’s all-powerful Strategy Group.
Red Bull have been angry with their engine suppliers Renault as well as the rule makers
The threat appears opportunistic to say the least. Red Bull had a dreadful opening round in Australia, with Daniil Kvyat failing to make it to the grid and Daniel Ricciardo finishing sixth. Companies like Red Bull will come and go – they remain in Formula One for as long as it suits their marketing purposes.
Marko’s comments come after a furious exchange between Red Bull boss Christian Horner and Toto Wolff, Mercedes head of motorsport. Wolff said Horner should stop “moaning” and complain at the Wailing Wall in Jerusalem.

