<<<<<<< HEAD
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568400/s/4466e0b4/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cmotorsport0Cformulaone0C114731310CAustralian0EGrand0EPrix0Ethe0Ethings0Ewe0Elearned0Bhtml/story01.htm
=======
>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
Australian Grand Prix: the six things we learned
By Daniel Johnson, F1 Correspondent, Melbourne
6:36AM GMT 15 Mar 2015
Comments
Mercedes and Hamilton in a different league Welcome to the two-car season. Maybe even the one-car season, given how Lewis Hamilton drove on his way to victory in the Australian Grand Prix.
It is clear now that Mercedes have perhaps even extended the already enormous advantage they held last year. In qualifying, Hamilton was 1.4s quicker than any other car, and in the race they comfortably strode away at the front.
Now, as 2014 proved, a two-car championship isn’t necessarily a bad thing. Hamilton and Rosberg’s duels last term provided a compelling narrative throughout.
But the indications from the season-opener are that the reigning champion has maintained his advantage. In qualifying trim he even corrected last year’s form. Let’s hope for a closer contest in Malaysia.

Vettel shows Raikkonen who’s boss Sebastian Vettel and Kimi Raikkonen are good friends out of the car, but clearly that does not mean the German will do his team-mate any favours on track.
At turn one, he squeezed the Finn onto the grass, starting the chain of events which put Pastor Maldonado in the wall. At least it wasn’t the Venezuelan’s fault this time.
Both Ferrari drivers know they must prove themselves this year. Raikkonen was obliterated by Fernando Alonso last term, and Vettel put up one of the most measly title defences ever. The German won this first exchange.
Vettel had the better of Raikkonen. Picture: Diego Azubel/EPA

Red Bull cut adrift Somehow, Red Bull have managed to start this year worse than 2014, when they had the most awful pre-season testing. The Renault engine, according technical boss Adrian Newey, has the same power as last year and is worse to drive. Work that one out.
In qualifying, the Toro Rossos were almost as fast. Before the race began, Daniil Kvyat was out with a gearbox problem. And once it got going, Daniel Ricciardo failed to overtake a Sauber (a Sauber!) in the opening laps and was helpless to defend from Raikkonen behind.
The problem for Red Bull is there are no obvious alternatives, no other engine supplier waiting to fill the breach. As Newey said over the weekend: “There is no light at the end of the tunnel”.
Red Bull's Daniil Kvyat eats gravel. Picture: Brandon Malone/Reuters
Have McLaren ever been worse? We thought qualifying was bad enough. But for Kevin Magnussen to suffer an engine failure on the way to the grid was almost laughable. After nine laps of the race, Jenson Button was 30 seconds adrift. At least the Briton kept at it, dicing with Sergio Perez in the opening laps.
On Saturday, immediately after Button and Magnussen qualified at the very back of the grid, the emails to McLaren’s PR-machine flooded in: “Was this the worst qualifying in their history?” They didn’t have the heart to respond. We can take it as a yes then.
Maybe we should not be surprised. The last time Honda were in Formula One, their engine was widely regarded to be the worst. As a former executive at the team said: “Why an earth do you think that would change?” And despite all the rhetoric around bringing back the glories of Ayrton Senna and Alain Prost, the 1980s were a long time ago.
There is plenty of time for them to get it together, but progress seems to be painfully slow. Ron Dennis and the rest will be on the receiving end of a lot of flak in the meantime.
Jenson Button gamely slogged round the track. Photo: Reuters
Shambolic Sauber In Max Mosley’s time at the FIA, “bringing the sport into disrepute” was used for all sorts of misdemeanours. After the Sauber shambles in Australia it would be thoroughly deserved. They somehow managed to sign three drivers for two spots (according to two courts).
As things stand, with Jean Todt at the helm, the FIA will do nothing at all. “We are not Max,” a source said. They seem to be almost totally absent when it comes to governing the sport.
It was telling that over the weekend we received no word from the FIA on the Sauber fiasco, which dragged F1 through the mud when everyone should have been excited about the season ahead, yet we were told that the FIA is to have a new director of communications. He has a big job on his hands.
As far as Sauber go, they have lost almost all the sympathy they had at the end of last year. At least the car doesn’t seem too slow.
At least everything went well on the track, after the very real threat all week that they wouldn't race. Both Felipe Nasr and Marcus Ericsson drove well, bringing home a bag of points. They scored none in 2014.
Bad Manors? Manor ‘made it to Melbourne’. But did they really? Does arriving with a load of equipment in containers and not making it out of the garage count? I would suggest not. Their revival has been one of the few good stories to come out of Formula One over the winter. But not so in Melbourne.
It is admirable how speedily they have managed to cobble everything together. Yet when they finally do make it onto the track, there is concern they will be in a colossal mess.
Team principal John Booth said there was always a slim chance of qualifying with only three weeks to build the car in accordance with 2015 regulations but many believe there was one fundamental reason why they came to Melbourne: so they did not miss out on their £30 million of prize money.
It had previously been thought that you can miss three races a year and not forfeit your share, but Bernie Ecclestone revealed over the weekend that you can only miss three per contract (which is what they did last year).
So no Melbourne, no prize money. As it turned out, they were here, but only nominally.
There may be more trouble in store – the FIA demanded an explanation of why they didn’t get out of the garage. The wrath of Ecclestone will not be far away.
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
