Sir Jackie Stewart: Formula One's good old days were actually the bad days
By Daniel Johnson
10:28PM GMT 14 Mar 2015
Comments
On the eve of his Formula One World Championship debut half a century ago, New Year's Eve as it happened, Sir Jackie Stewart pulled up at a drive-in movie with his great friend Jochen Rindt.
It was the only way the Scot and the sport's only posthumous world champion could get some peace from the merrymakers back at their clapped-out hotel in East London, South Africa.
"It wasn't even fashionable back then," the 75-year-old jokes, perched on his 1973 Tyrrell, the third and final of his championship-winning cars, in a barn to house old cars on his estate in Buckinghamshire.
"That friendship had been going on since the early days. We were just sitting in our car watching an outdoor movie because we wouldn't have been able to asleep. We finally got back through the rowdies."
As it turned out, the bizarre preparations did not serve Sir Jackie all that badly. He finished sixth, scoring a point on his debut, with a bit of help from his hero, two-time champion Jim Clark.
Stewart remembers: "He lapped me while I was running out of petrol, came alongside and waved at me to go one way and then the other. It kept petrol slushing around, so I got across the line."
Best of Britain: Sir Jackie Stewart with fellow Scot, David Coulthard
Later that year he triumphed in the coveted 'Daily Express International' and the Italian Grand Prix in September.
Stewart went on to win 27 races, surviving perhaps the sport's deadliest era to beome, statistically at least, "The greatest driver Britain has ever had" (Stewart himself is deferential to Clark, who died racing at Hockenheim in 1968).
Today, in the season-opener in Australia, Lewis Hamilton will begin his quest to equal Stewart's British record of three titles, but rewind back 42 years to the Dunbartonshire man's final championship, it was simply a different time.
With advertising in F1 in its infancy, the drivers were free to dress as they chose, rather than in their sponsor-covered team garb. Stewart's first team-mate, Graham Hill, his inspiration for how to handle himself outside the car, was always immaculate; perhaps the most stylish driver the sport has ever known.
For this race in Melbourne, most teams will have over 100 people in attendance, including an army of hospitality folk. At the European rounds, Ferrari even have a separate motorhome for the press.
As Stewart, who still makes it to at least 10 races a year, puts it: "They're not motorhomes, they're buildings. Even the smaller ones are spectacular as well.
"We changed in the back of a transporter and Nora Tyrrell did the sandwiches. There were more people in the paddock back then because there were no paddock passes. The recognition then was probably even higher than it is now. There was still a degree of style with the drivers in those days."
One might assume Sir Jackie's comments feed into the recent yearning for nostalgia which pervades Formula One. But, with some qualifications, the Scot, one of only four people in F1 ever to have been given a knighthood,provides a welcome antidote to the ˜back to the future' mood.
"It's very easy to say these were wonderful days, and that these were ˜the good old days', but they were actually the bad old days," he says, showing me pictures of the friends he lost and other memories kept in 18 enormous scrapbooks, composed by his wife, Helen.
Treble: Stewart is the only British driver to win three F1 world championships
"Keep in mind that the racing cars of then were still the Star Wars of that time, as it is today. So the good old days thing is a fallacy. Yes, sometimes the atmosphere is modern Formula One is quite constipated; that it never was. There used to be a lot more familiarity and camaraderie, but on the downside, there were so many people getting killed."
It brings conversation onto the subject which Stewart - other than his exploits on track - is perhaps best known for: his crusade for better safety. He tells awful tales of non-existent medical facilities and constant infernos.
"I travelled with my own doctor because I simply didn't trust what was offered to us," he says. Given his work on making F1 safer then, it is clear there was some surprise when he was not invited to be part of the FIA' panel into the accident which left Jules Bianchi fighting for his life.
"I was never asked. Because of the experience I had and resistance I encountered I think I could have accelerated the process faster than it turned out to be. To this day the governing body has never asked me if I'll be on a committee."
Part of that has to do with his awkward relationship with the FIA's former President, Max Mosley. The latter memorably called Stewart a "certified half-wit", prompting a fierce war of words.
Glory days: Celebrating success with BMW Williams
With time, the barbs have faded away. But the release of Mosley's book, planned for this summer, should reignite the subject.
"I'm sure I'll get a mention," Stewart says with a smile. "It should be an interesting book." On Bianchi's crash itself, his is an "unpopular view": the Frenchman was driving too fast, given the double-waved yellow flags and the treacherous conditions.
But his long-held opinion of Formula One stewarding and safety procedures, with the exception of the "fantastic" race director Charlie Whiting, is even more striking.
"The cars are Star Wars to a level we have never been before, but the other side is still amateur," he says. "We're still not anything like as professional as we should be.
"At Indianapolis, they have a guy called Johnny Rutherford. He's in charge of safety with regards to the driver's performances, he's at every race, and he's paid to do it. Despite all the money in F1, there's still this side which is what I would call amateur."
Since retiring as world champion in 1973, a race early, following the death of his team-mate and close friend Francois Cevert, Stewart has maintained his presence in the public spotlight, becoming a wealthy man with commercial deals in the process, offering some controversial opinions along the way (his suggestion that Mercedes may have rigged last year's Italian Grand Prix raised eyebrows).
Lewis Hamilton, of a different breed and generation, has often been the subject of Stewart's vocal criticism, but he is reluctant to go down that path once more. "I can't be a critic of Lewis, I'm not close enough to him."
On the track: Sir Jackie Stewart (left) in his racing days
More surprisingly, he reveals: "I have never had what I would call a conversation with Lewis Hamilton.
"I know Alain Prost, I knew Ayrton Senna, I could give you all sorts of opinions on them, but it wouldn't be appropriate for me to give an opinion on Lewis."
On Hamilton's mind management, particularly after his latest split with Nicole Scherzinger, Stewart does at least add: "I think he's still maturing. I think we're going to see more.
"The mind management is more important than the skill. It's something that would stop you doing some of the things that have been happening in the last two years, the little coming togethers."
Should Hamilton win the championship as everyone expects, Stewart will be pleased despite the fact the two share little in common other than their talents behind the wheel.
"I won't mind at all," he says with a smile. "Records are always there to be broken. Lewis or somebody else will win more world championships than me. I've held it a long time."

