http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568400/s/44618baf/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cmotorsport0Cformulaone0Clewishamilton0C114720A680CAustralian0EGP0E20A150ELewis0EHamilton0Etakes0Epole0Eon0Emiserable0Eday0Efor0EJenson0EButton0Bhtml/story01.htm
Australian Grand Prix 2015: Lewis Hamilton takes pole on miserable day for Jenson Button
By Daniel Johnson, in Melbourne
7:35AM GMT 14 Mar 2015
Comments
The fortunes of Great Britain’s two stars of Formula One could not have been further apart in qualifying for the season-opening Australian Grand Prix.
Lewis Hamilton obliterated the opposition to take pole position while his former team-mate, Jenson Button, was bringing up the rear on a shocking, disgraceful day for McLaren, after what was thought to be the worst qualifying performance in their history.
As expected, the Mercedes of Hamilton and Nico Rosberg locked out the front row, but McLaren were even more dreadful than many had anticipated. Button and Kevin Magnussen will start Sunday’s race from the very back, in 17th and 18th positions. Although Manor did not qualify, it is more than unlikely they will be on the grid having not made it out of the garage all weekend.
Fan power: Lewis Hamilton signs autographs for admirers (ACTION IMAGES)
Button, a three-time winner in Melbourne, will have no chance of getting anywhere near the front on Sunday afternoon. Finishing the race will be an achievement considering the depth of McLaren-Honda’s woes.
As poor as McLaren were, Mercedes and Hamilton were in phenomenal form, as the 30-year-old took the 39th position of his career. His final effort was 0.6s quicker than Rosberg, and an astonishing 1.4s clear of the next closest team, Williams. Felipe Massa was third, while the Ferraris of Sebastian Vettel and Kimi Raikkonen were fourth and fifth. Daniel Ricciardo for a struggling Red Bull was seventh.
Red baron: Kimi Raikkonen finished fifth in qualifying
Rosberg must have been feeling somewhat shellshocked after a winter studying how to bridge the gap to Hamilton. Unsurprisingly, Hamilton was all smiles, punching the air after he crossed the line.
For anyone but Mercedes it was a chastening day too. The team won 16 races last year and the early indications are we are in for more of the same in 2015.
The first part of qualifying was a messy affair. First Ricciardo, then Hamilton, then Button went off the road. Max Verstappen, the youngest driver in Formula One history, was living up to the high pulling, putting his Toro Rosso fourth in the opening segment. Ferrari seemed impressive at first, but as soon as Mercedes got down to work it was clear they were miles ahead.

That was always known. What was not clear was how abominably slow McLaren would be. Button and Magnussen did their best but were effectively four seconds off the Mercedes pace, when tyre compounds take into account.
With McLaren chairman Ron Dennis watching on, it is difficult to understate the scale of the embarrassment and ignominy for this apparently great team. Fernando Alonso, recuperating from his testing accident at home in Dubai, could be forgiven for not bothering to turn up at the second race in Malaysia.
• David Coulthard ranks the F1 teams for 2015
2013 was their worst season in three decades, with not a podium to show for it, but this one threatens to be a whole lot worse. It is all the more shocking given the fanfare made when Honda returned as engine supplier. The rhetoric and spin was all about returning to the might of their last partnership in the late 1980s; a period of extraordinary dominance with Ayrton Senna and Alain Prost at the wheel.
They have arrived late to this new formula but had two years to prepare. Early indications by some of Formula One’s boffins was that this engine could be as much as 250 brake horsepower down on the Mercedes – the equivalent of an entire Honda Civic Type R.
Despite being six seconds off the pace of Mercedes, Button was doing his best to remain positive and insisted McLaren will eventually be in contention.
“I was always thinking long term when I re-signed,” he said. “I really do think that in the end we can challenge the Mercedes at the front. “I’d rather not be at the back of the grid but I am not sitting here downbeat. It is a tough time now and there will be tough times for many weeks, but it will make is stronger.
Off day: Jenson Button had a terrible afternoon in Melbourne
“We have not done a race distance. So if we finish the race tomorrow it may not sound much, but it will help a lot.”
With the paddock still calculating the scale of McLaren’s woe, the second part of qualifying continued to the formbook. Hamilton was blistering quick, while Rosberg complained he was having problems with first gear.
The main story here was a first sign of a wobble for Verstappen. Coming out of turn five, he squirmed this way and that, losing a big chunk of time. The Dutchman was out, while his team-mate Carlos Sainz Jr. – also on debut – went through. Daniil Kvyat, the man who was promoted from Toro Rosso to Red Bull for this year, was just 13th.

The early stages of the shootout for pole position quashed any hopes that this season might be anything other than an all-Mercedes affair. Hamilton immediately smashed Raikkonen’s effort by more than two seconds.
His team-mate was in much less scintillating form. Warming up for his flying lap, he ran onto the grass and had to dive into the pit-lane for fresh rubber. On his final run, he couldn’t even get close to Hamilton. The entire field will be staring at the back of Hamilton’s Mercedes if he keeps this up.
