Who will win the 2015 Six Nations?
By Will Greenwood
1:04PM GMT 20 Mar 2015
Comments
Italy v Wales
Italy's inconsistency has the potential to create a Welsh field day. Italy were awful in 2014, have improved in patches in 2015, but as the tournament has gone on they have got worse.
They were absolute dross against France, and I say that as a fan. An inability to catch and pass, recycle, kick goals, that meant a poor France side won by 29 points. It was not a game to remember and you hope it will spur some sort of reaction from the Azzurri.
Wales by contrast are getting better. The front five have shown a sensational work ethic and Alun-Wyn Jones has been the standout lock of the tournament. Luke Charteris got in on the act last week with 31 tackles. Scott Baldwin is perfect for a trip to Rome and running rugby. The intensity of their defending line should keep Italians at bay on the scoreboard, which will allow them to go chasing the points.
• Pressure will be like Ryder Cup final day, says Stuart Lancaster • France lose fly-half Camille Lopez for England clash • I believe France can beat anyone, says Philippe Saint-Andre

They can kick easy three-point penalties all day and won’t need to take seven-point gambles early on. Leigh Halfpenny is so accurate, and so smooth, that forcing the Italians to play catch up quickly can help them disintegrate.

Then it is all about pace. The back row have great hands - Dan Lydiate for the try against France with his pop to Dan Biggar was beautiful. Sam Warburton is everywhere at the moment, and Toby Faletau could play in the slips, his link play and touch is so special.
Rhys Webb has had a great tournament but must keep his patience and wait for his trademark break. He must not force it. Biggar is in great form and he will hold the key to the size of the win. Biggar looks as if he is beginning to enjoy international rugby, but he needs to trust his hands now. In previous games he has been a little too deep at times when Wales have quick ball. Get on that gain line, and Wales have so many dangerous runners that they can trouble the best in the world.
Leigh Halfpenny has the accuracy to scare any team (Credit: REX FEATURES)
Liam Williams is loving it. George North was quiet against Ireland so, by definition, will be huge against Italy. Jamie Roberts will always make yards, and again has been the standout inside centre in the tournament. His tackle on Tommy Bowe when the score was 15–9 to Ireland with 55 minutes on clock last week was unbelievable. His foot movement, his balance to shift his weight back onto his inside and deck a flying Bowe was the moment Ireland’s grand slam slipped away. Jonathan Davies has had a run of games that has his confidence sky high after taking some time to settle in Clermont.
Verdict
Biggar has to get right in the face of Italians and get the defensive line on its heels. Wales are confident, brash, physical, and direct. A 33-point win is achievable if they stick to their game plan and it would throw down a marker for the rest. Wales will be praying for sunshine.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Scotland v Ireland
Despite the fact that Ireland, even away from home, could lay claim to being the best team in the Northern Hemisphere at the moment, it does not mean that the result of this game is a forgone conclusion. Scotland will look to tighten up their first two or three phases of defensive organisation, which have been broken too easily in their last two matches. Their defensive scramble against England, however, was sensational and it kept the score down. Blair Cowan and Mark Bennett saved certain tries time and again.
In attack, even while losing, Scotland with Finn Russell at 10 look as though they have time and space and people who can get it out to the wide flanks. Tommy Seymour is sharp and Stuart Hogg has wheels. Up front, Jonny Gray is becoming a young man mountain, and he played a key role in the build up to the Mark Bennett try. Rob Harley, meanwhile, is viewed, behind closed doors, as Scotland's version of Richard Hill; a player they wouldn't play without.
Jonny Gray is growing into his role (Credit: REX FEATURES)
So the challenge is on for Ireland. Even in their loss against Wales last week we saw why they are so good at the moment. Most sides would have torn up their script and thrown the kitchen sink. Ireland remained calm.
• We can still claim the title, says Sam Warburton • Six Nations: Who will win – our experts' predictions • England on £2 million jackpot if they win Six Nations

Cian Healey’s drop when players were waiting to walk in outside him was a blip that will haunt for a long, long time, but outside of that Ireland's heartbeat never skipped in the most partisan of stadiums. Composure after early errors, they still believed they would win.
To a man the 23 are comfortable on the ball. They probe, they prod, and they let key players make big calls. A license to adapt and tweak. Tommy Bowe, Conor Murray, Peter O'Mahony, Sean O'Brien, Simon Zebo - these are not shackled players. They trust their system and they know what to do in times of strife, which makes them a very dangerous team and extremely difficult to ever truly put away. Paul O'Connell was inspired all game, running free, while Jared Payne is settling into life in the 13 slot.
Paul O'Connell was inspired against Wales last weekend (Credit: REX FEATURES)
They will pull you around on the field to set you up for Bowe or members of his back three to slice through the middle of rucks as they exhaust tight forwards, and pull back rows wide trying to separate the heavy lads from the high tackle count guys.
Verdict
I have the Irish to win this one by 12 points. That would put them equal on points in the Six Nations table with Wales, should that victory happen, with a plus 45 or so in the points difference. Which sets things up nicely for the last game…
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
England v France
The big question will be looming: did England blow it last weekend by not scoring when they could and should have? It wasn't to be and they have to win well against the French in London.
After the disappointment of Ireland, England must be confident of how they played against Scotland. They still made some bad calls while defending, but there were fewer and importantly when attacking they played with pace and ball movement. They should focus on that; the desire of everyone to handle, to play, with a ringmaster at 10, George Ford, that adjusted his alignment form the Italian game and is back where he is comfortable - right on the gain line.
Jack Nowell made some errors - ignore them. He will learn. Instead look at his work rate, his step, his yardage.

England could be home and hosed for this tournament by now. The only way they won't be is if they worry about the final whistle and what might happen. They need to let Ben Youngs and Ford play with high tempo and allow the other players to do what they have been picked for. Luther Burrell must play hard and straight, Jonathan Joseph use those twinkle toes, the pack must niggle and drive, dominating the set piece. Keep the French honest and working hard. Do not let them back in with small and silly errors. Increase the pressure and they will crack.
Jack Nowell's work rate is one of his biggest assets (Credit: REX FEATURES)
France have good players, they have pace and power but their inconsistency of selection has made it all but impossible for units within the team to flourish. As a result they will be direct, and straight. Tough but readable. They can still pull rabbits out of hats but far less frequently than in the past. There is such little ball movement behind the pack now that they rely on one-on-one individual skill and that is easier to defend against than 15 players in full flow.
England will need to be ambitiously patient. They will have been going over the missed opportunities all week. Fine, but don’t forget that you don’t have to score from the same phase you make the break from. Look for support, slow down, track the ball anticipate. Change angles, buy time for the support to get to you. Ignore the wide daft tricky pass and understand that you may need to take the tackle in a good body position so that you can recycle quickly and stop the scrambling defenders from slowing the ball down.
Right now England have discarded Chris Ashton and Christian Wade, but they would have scored a couple of tries last week. You could throw David Strettle in there too. What do they do? They track the ball. They anticipate. England need to look up and ahead more. But these are tweaks. England's game was in great shape last week. Break after break is a good place to be.
Verdict
Get it right, and England have the chance to beat France by 15 to 20 points. Do that, and they will hold off the chasing pack and take the Championship. Anything less, and this wonderful day of rugby will end with a rival lifting the Championship, leaving England to wonder if 2015 really can be a year to remember.

