<<<<<<< HEAD
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604284/s/3ea512ba/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Colympics0Csailing0C1110A95460CPoignant0EBarts0EBash0Eraces0Ewill0Eprecede0Ethe0Enew0Eattempt0Eto0Ebring0EAmericas0ECup0Eback0Eto0EBritain0Bhtml/story01.htm
=======
>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
Poignant Bart's Bash races will precede the new attempt to bring America's Cup back to Britain
By Sir Ben Ainslie
8:36PM BST 19 Sep 2014
Comments
I am pretty sure I will not be on the winning boat this weekend but, for once, that is a long way down my list of priorities. The quest to bring the America’s Cup back to Great Britain can wait for a few days.
Sunday’s inaugural Bart’s Bash is an event I have been looking forward for a long time. A Guinness World Record attempt for the Largest Sailing Race ever (actually hundreds of races all held within a 24hr window), in memory of my great friend and one of this country’s greatest Olympic sailors, Andrew Simpson, who tragically lost his life in an America’s Cup training accident last year.
The idea is to raise funds for the Andrew Simpson Sailing Foundation, a charity set up to encourage and inspire young children to get involved in sailing, something that Bart, one of the kindest and most generous of souls, was particularly passionate about.
The response has been unbelievable, almost overwhelming; a true testament to Bart’s popularity within the sailing community. Already over 11,000 sailors from 700 sailing clubs across 65 countries have signed up, which means that from New Zealand to Newquay, from Hawaii to Heathrow - which is where I’ll be racing on the Queen Mary Reservoir - there will be hundreds of races taking place in memory of Bart. It is going to be amazing.
Rather cleverly, the organisers have managed to devise a way of handicapping the entire fleet, using everything from boat class to wind speed to determine a final ranking. That means that you can rank yourself against me, or Iain Percy, or Paul Goodison, or Jimmy Spithill, or Nathan Outteridge, or any number of other Olympic and world champions. I cannot guarantee that the final ranking will be that accurate, but who cares? It is meant to be a fun, inspiring day out.
Ainslie desperate to make history in America's Cup
Ainslie's extreme Cup audition
Sir Ben Ainslie's puts Extreme 40 ambitions on back burner due to America's Cup focus
A fair wind in our sails
We can bring the America's Cup back home to Britain
How Ben Ainslie Racing was formed
The reason that I have gone for the Queen Mary Sailing Club, rather than down in Weymouth where the Andrew Simpson Sailing Foundation is based, was simply to spread the trustees out a bit and try to get as many sailors and clubs out on the water as possible.
I will be sailing an RS400, which is a two-handed dinghy, with my girlfriend Georgie, but I will be in Weymouth on Saturday night to catch up with everyone including Bart’s family, his wife Leah and their two small boys Freddie and Hamish. Freddie, who is now four, will actually be sailing with Iain in a Star on Sunday - the class of boat on which Iain and Bart won gold at Beijing 2008 and silver at London 2012 - which will be incredibly poignant. I know how happy Bart would be about that.
As for the America’s Cup, it really feels as if things are ticking along now.
We get the first test boat out on the water at the end of this month, which is going to be an important milestone for the team. We’re actually going to launch from Southampton rather than our new base in Portsmouth, which will not be ready until next May, but it will not make the occasion any less exciting. Once you are actually out there training, it all starts to feel more real.
We had the official America’s Cup launch in London at the start of last week, which was interesting. It was the first time all the teams had got together; the first chance for the skippers to really eyeball each other. I’m not suggesting we were like boxers sizing each other up but there was a certain frisson, particularly between Jimmy Spithill (Oracle Team USA) and Dean Barker (Team New Zealand) after all the ructions that went on in the 34th America’s Cup.
In a wider sense, though, I feel we are all working much better together. Everyone feels as if they have a voice now, which has not always been the case with the America’s Cup. The relationship between defenders Oracle and Luna Rossa, the new Challenger of Record following the withdrawal of Team Australia, has been far healthier, leading to a more conciliatory atmosphere all around.
As well as the important discussions aimed at keeping costs down, the next big step is nailing down a venue for 2017, with should be confirmed in October. Bermuda and San Diego are on the shortlist although it is likely both venues will be used at some point, with one hosting some build-up races and the other the finals.
There are pros and cons to each as far as hosting the actual America’s Cup is concerned. Bermuda is probably better for the purists with San Diego offering more commercial potential.
In the meantime, we will get our heads down and keep plugging away out on the water. On Monday we returned from a frustrating outing to Istanbul in the Extreme 40s, a global catamaran series which we are doing as it is the closest thing to the America’s Cup taking place this year.
Everything that could have gone wrong did go wrong; boat damage, gear failure. But ultimately we didn’t sail well enough as a unit, finishing seventh overall which was frustrating as we had been making good progress. The important thing, though, is we are learning all the time, about the catamarans and about each other. That experience could prove invaluable in the cut-throat world of the America’s Cup.
Either way, I’m hoping for better luck beneath the Heathrow flight path on Sunday as we all sail in memory of Bart.
To find out more about Bart’s Bash visit www.bartsbash.co.uk
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======

>>>>>>> fedf15d74203d164d5e4d7805234bc435782b65d
