Chelsea striker Diego Costa away for Spain at last but more woe for Russia manager Fabio Capello
By Julian Bennett
10:23PM BST 12 Oct 2014
Comments
Diego Costa finally scored his first goal for Spain as they cruised to a 4-0 victory over Luxembourg.
The striker has been in stunning form since moving to Chelsea in the summer but had failed to hit the heights for his country, having failed to score in his first six internationals - the worst record of any striker in Spanish history.
That came in stark contrast to his record of nine goals in just seven Premier League games, and it appeared his misfortune was set to continue when he missed a simple first-half chance, pulling his shirt over his head in frustration.
But he finally scored his first Spain goal after 514 minutes of football, swivelling to fire home from close range to make the score 3-0.
David Silva had earlier given Spain the lead in superb style, the Manchester City man showing a deft touch before firing into the top corner. Paco Alcacer then made it two before half-time, before Juan Bernat added a late fourth.
Stoch and Kucka strike to stun Spain
De Gea: I could have quit United
Costa ready to face Arsenal
Spain on the road to recovery in five-goal stroll
Fabregas: I will always love Arsenal
Costa returns to Chelsea over new injury fears
There was further good news as Manchester United goalkeeper David de Gea kept a clean sheet after he was preferred to Iker Casillas following Thursday’s shock defeat in Slovakia.
Yet Slovakia showed that victory was not a fluke as they remain top of Group C after a hugely impressive 3-1 win in Belarus.
Napoli’s Marek Hamsik was the star as he scored twice - the first of which was a stunning first-time effort - to ensure his country maintained their perfect record, while Stanislav Sestak made the game safe late on.
In the same group Ukraine eased to a 1-0 victory over Macedonia in Lviv thanks to Serhiy Sydorchuk’s goal on his full international debut, although there may be repercussions after the match was briefly halted when a firework landed near the visitors’ goalkeeper.
In England’s group, Slovenia claimed an impressive 2-0 win in Lithuania thanks to two goals from Milivoje Novakovic - the man who scored the decisive penalty in the shock win over Switzerland last time out.
Lithuania were the better side for the first half-hour before Novakovic struck twice in quick succession, the second from a rapid breakaway.
England’s next qualifier is against Slovenia at Wembley on Nov 15.
But there was more woe for former England manager Fabio Capello, whose Russia side were held to a dire 1-1 draw by Moldova in Moscow.
Russia struggled to break down a dogged Moldovan defence but did so with 17 minutes to go when Artyom Dzyuba won and converted a penalty.
The lead lasted just a minute, however, as Alexandru Epureanu headed home from a corner to heap the pressure on Capello, who many thought was fortunate to keep his job — and his £6.7 million annual salary after a World Cup in which Russia failed to win a game.
Russia slipped to second place after that result as Austria beat Montenegro 1-0 thanks to Rubin Okotie’s first-half goal. And Sweden also took advantage of their lapse as they beat Leichtenstein 2-0 to move level on points with Capello’s men, Erkan Zengin and Jimmy Durmaz with the goals.

