Sports Personality of the Year 2014 Awards: in pictures
BBC Sports Personality of the Year - shortlist: in pictures
Sports Personality of the Year: Your verdict
By Telegraph Sport
6:21PM GMT 14 Dec 2014
Comments
The bookmakers may not always be right and an upset could be on the cards, because Telegraph Sport readers have voted overwhelmingly for Lewis Hamilton to win the 2014 BBC Sports Personality award, relegating the odds-on favourite Rory McIlroy into second place in our online poll.
At one stage McIlroy's odds to win the prize were 1-9 on, but late afternoon Sunday, just a few hours before the prize was due to be awarded, the Northern Irish golfer was 4-6 on, with Hamilton close behind at 13-8.
More than twice as many Telegraph Sport readers expressed their preference for the Formula One world champion, however, with the Englishman's polling over 43 per cent of the vote to McIlroy's 21 per cent.
Charlotte Dujardin led the chasing pack, the dressage rider improving on the bookmakers' fifth-favourite status of 150-1, closely followed by European athletics champion and mother of two Jo Pavey.
McIlroy has come of age, winning two majors in the summer of 2014, the Open and the US PGA Championship, and played his part in Europe's Ryder Cup victory at Gleneagles in September. Hamilton's late-season charge saw him prevail in the Formula One drivers' championship, and into the Spoty reckoning, after fighting off the challenge of his Mercedes team-mate Nico Rosberg.
Golfers brand McIlroy's SPOTY snub 'a joke'
Golf, not Rory McIlroy, has lost its popularity
SPOTY 2014 award: as it happened
BBC SPOTY shortlist
The recent nature of Hamilton's win, sealed in November, could have played a part in the results of the Telegraph Sport poll, but they also suggest a surprise could be on the cards during Sunday evening's ceremony.
The English gymnast Claudia Fragapane, who won a stunning four golds at the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow is Telegraph Sport readers' choice to win the Young Sports Personality award, with a landslide 63 per cent of your vote.
Real Madrid's Ballon d'Or winner Cristiano Ronaldo leads a close-run Overseas Sports Personality race.
The Portuguese, on 24 per cent, beats tennis world No 1 Novak Djokovic (19 per cent) into second, with Irish retired rugby player Brian O'Driscoll in third (17 per cent).

