Lance Armstrong offered deal to reduce ban
By Tom Cary, Cycling Correspondent
11:13PM GMT 14 Mar 2015
Comments
Lance Armstrong should commit to becoming an anti-doping ambassador and must provide “substantial assistance” to anti-doping officials, which would help them to prosecute others, if he is to have any chance of having his lifetime ban reduced.
The Daily Telegraph revealed earlier this week that the door had been reopened to a reduction in the Texan’s ban with Brian Cookson, the president of cycling’s world governing body the UCI, asked to broker a meeting between Armstrong and the United States Anti-Doping Agency in the wake of the publication of the controversial Cycling Independent Reform Commission’s report earlier this week.
Travis Tygart, the chief executive of Usada, has told The Sunday Telegraph that he is open to having that meeting, but warned that the American must come prepared to provide fresh evidence.
“To be perfectly honest, our position hasn’t changed,” Tygart said. “We hope that Lance comes and speaks to us. We’ve been hoping since 2012 that he would. Technically he still has the opportunity to get his ban reduced.
“I can’t speculate on what further information he might or might not share with us. I suspect there is more that he still hasn’t said. But remember it would need to be ‘substantial assistance’ under the Wada code; that means credible evidence to help in any case which is initiated. He can’t just come in and say ‘Here’s what I did’. That just won’t cut it.”
Travis Tygart, the chief executive of Usada (AFP)
Asked when that meeting might take place, Tygart said there had been no “formal contact” yet with the American. “The earlier the better,” he said. “It would have been better in June 2012. As we get further from the statute of limitations, we’re losing the opportunity to get value out of testimony.”
The CIRC report appeared to contradict itself at times, at one stage noting the “fundamental principle of equal treatment of athletes” and in another appearing to argue the opposite view, stressing the need to incentivise whistleblowing and offer plea bargains.
Tygart described much of the witness testimony as “flimsy” and said there had been an “ivory tower” approach from the panel in terms of gathering evidence. “They didn’t ask us to share any information with them, or at least were very limited in what they requested,” he said.
“Nor did they share information with us. You could tell that the panel were not in day-to-day anti-doping work. If they thought the Lance sanction was unfair they had the power to recommend a reduction. They didn’t. Whether they have any evidence that might affect that decision, or whether they’d be prepared to share it, I can’t say.”
Tygart added that if and when Armstrong decided to cooperate, it could not harm his case if he committed to anti-doping educational work.
“At the end of the day, Lance would be a very powerful storyteller for young kids,” Tygart said. “He went from the top of the world to the bottom. It’s a powerful cautionary tale.
“Working as an anti-doping ambassador does not win you credit in and of itself, but it would help show he really was sorry. It is important that he really is telling the truth. It looks [from CIRC] as if he is sorry. Everyone is entitled to a second chance; from Floyd [Landis] to Tyler [Hamilton] to Justin Gatlin to Tyson Gay. They can still provide an educational message. Lance’s might be the most powerful message.”

