Tour de France winner Vincenzo Nibali says two-year suspensions are no longer sufficient for dopers in cycling
By Tom Cary, Cycling Correspondent
6:37PM BST 23 Oct 2014
Comments
Tour de France champion Vincenzo Nibali has described the recent positive doping tests at Astana as "isolated", arguing that the team should not be held responsible for the "stupidity" of some of its riders.
Brothers Maxim and Valentin Iglinskiy both tested positive for the banned blood booster EPO in August, the former having helped Nibali to victory at the Tour de France the previous month.
More recently Ilya Davidenok, a stagiaire who rode for Astana's continental team, tested positive for steroids, leading the sport's governing body, the International Cycling Union, to warn that the team's WorldTour licence for next year would undergo a "full review".
Nibali, though, said he did not feel the team should pay. "There will probably be sanctions, but I think it is the concerned riders that should pay, not us, because they are the ones who did it, not us," he told French newspaper Le Monde. "It would need to be a big ban. Apparently two-year suspensions are no longer sufficient."
The Italian, speaking at the 2015 Tour presentation in Paris on Wednesday, added that his first reaction on learning of the Iglinskiy positives was one of "rage".
Froome: I may not ride in the 2015 Tour de France
Tour de France 2015 route announced: as it happened
Astana under threat as third rider fails drugs test
Astana race licence under threat
"You say, 'But damn, how is it possible that something like this still happening today?' You really have to be stupid" said Nibali. "This is an isolated case. We're speaking of two brothers, it happens in families, outside of the team. It's ugly because the entire team must pay the consequences, even if it has nothing to do with this story."
The UCI's licence commission has banned the Kazakh-funded Astana team before, for similar problems, back in 2012, although the Court of Arbitration for Sport later reversed that decision. Astana were also barred from the 2008 Tour de France by ASO, the race organisers, after Alexandre Vinokourov, who is now the general manager at Astana, was found guilty of blood doping in the previous year's race.
Nibali insisted that he himself was clean and his conduct at this year's Tour proved he was unafraid to engage on the issue of doping.
"I answered every question, I never avoided the subject. I have always been transparent and available on these questions, even when I was at team Liquigas," he said.
"Things have changed thanks to the anti-doping agencies, it's a good thing that they do more and more controls."
Meanwhile, Kazakhstan's National Anti-Doping Centre and the Kazakhstan Cycling Federation have jointly announced that they will introduce biometric passport monitoring of domestic professional cyclists from 2015.
"In Kazakhstan in 2015 we will introduce the world's most advanced anti-doping system together with KazNADC, a fully-equipped laboratory with the latest technology, and with the support of international experts," said KCF Executive Director Dmitriy Muravyev.
"Large-scale testing for riders of all ages, biometric passports and educational seminars are just a part of our long-term strategic anti-doping program."

