http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/671040/s/44738220/sc/17/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Ccycling0Ctrack0Ecycling0C114755420CMaloja0EPushbikers0Eseal0ERevolution0ESeries0Etitle0ERhys0EBritton0Eand0EEleanor0EDickinson0Ehold0Eout0Ein0EFuture0EStars0Bhtml/story01.htm
Maloja Pushbikers seal Revolution Series title; Rhys Britton and Eleanor Dickinson hold out in Future Stars
By John MacLeary, Manchester Velodrome
5:27PM GMT 16 Mar 2015
Comments
In the end it was perhaps inevitable that Maloja Pushbikers, the defending champions, retained their Elite Championship title here in Manchester on Saturday night, but boy how they earned it.
Throughout the six rounds of the domestic track meeting with a very international flavour, Maloja Pushbikers packed their squad with a number of Six Day specialists ideally suited to a multi-discipline event like the Revolution Series.
With the Elite Championship being made up of five events – the flying lap, points race, scratch race, 1km Madison time trial and team elimination – it is little wonder that those who earn their corn throughout the winter months in places such as Ghent, Bremen, Copenhagen and Rotterdam came out on top at the Revolution Series.
After taking the lead following the opening round of the Revolution Series at the LeeValley Velodrome back in October, Maloja Pushbikers started the final round on 243 points, ahead of Orica-GreenEdge (225 points) and Telegraph All-Stars in third with 189 points.
Despite failing to take a single race in the final round after Orica-GreenEdge's Alex Edmonson and Miles Scotney romped home with a clean-sweep, the Maloja Pushbikers pairing of Christian Grassman and Leif Lampater ended the series on top after following some consistent performances throughout the season.
ELITE CHAMPIONSHIP FINAL STANDINGS

There were late rallies, too, in the boys and girls' Future Stars competitions which, like the Elite Championship had been led by Rhys Britton and Eleanor Dickinson since round one.
Future stars: Eleanor Dickinson and Rhys Britton celebrate on the podium in Manchester Photo: LUKE WEBBER
Fred Wright, riding for Telegraph All-Stars, put in a strong evening of riding to take the points and scratch races before Team USN's Britton sealed his overall Future Stars title with victory in the six-lap dash.
Similarly, Sophie Capewell (Maloja Pushbikers) powered her way to victory in all three of her races – the points race, scratch race and six-lap dash – though was unable to overhaul Eleanor Dickinson (NFTO) who held on the win the girls' title before later being presented her prize money and new bike by Sir Chris Hoy.
The afternoon session in Manchester concluded with Gustav Larsson's attempt at the hour record. Despite falling well short of Rohan Dennis mark of 52.491km, Larsson set a new Swedish record of 50.016km.
"Straight after the event I told myself I would never try the hour again, but now, I think with the right training and experience on the track I could try again," Larsson said afterwards.
"The crowd was great today, but I felt like my legs weren't up to it. Setting the Swedish record is good, but it wasn't my aim. I have really enjoyed Revolution, it's a great atmosphere that's so different from cycling on the road, everyone has been so welcoming."
