http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/616203/s/2b13507a/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Csailing0C10A0A138540CSimon0ELe0EBon0Epays0Etribute0Eto0Einspirational0ESwedish0Esailor0EMagnus0EOlsson0Bhtml/story01.htm
Simon Le Bon pays tribute to inspirational Swedish sailor Magnus Olsson
By Kate Laven
7:19PM BST 23 Apr 2013
Comments
The sailing community across the world has taken to the social media networks in a way never before seen in the sport to express their sadness at the loss of the Swedish sailor, a stalwart of the Whitbread/Volvo Ocean Race who took part in six races over 24 years between 1985 and 2009.
He was working as a coach to the all women’s team Team SCA in Lanzarote when he suffered a stroke, having previously had two heart attacks and although his condition improved, the 64 year-old died on Saturday.
Although he made a huge contribution to the race as a competitor, it was his warm and cheery nature and a dazzling smile that bonded crews together, oiled big clanky wheels and proved so appealing and infectious to the racing community.
Olsson started his racing career in 1985 as a crewmember on Drum skippered by international rock star Simon Le Bon and went onto win his fourth race in 1997-98 with EF Language. He was most recently the skipper of Ericsson 3, in charge of a rookie crew in 2008-09 causing a sensation by winning one of the most difficult legs.
“I am terribly sad that I didn't get to see him and spend one more evening in the glow of that smile,” Le Bon said on Twitter.
Ian Walker launches third attempt at Volvo Ocean Race crown
Should there be mixed crews?
My best and worst moments
Women to return
Ainslie suffers surprise defeat
“That smile and the laughter which warmed your heart when all around, everything seemed damp and cold. Goodbye dear friend. “
"He was the inspiration for me and for so many more and more than anything he was the smile of the race,” added Volvo Race CEO Knut Frostad who sailed with him on Intrum Justitia in 1993-94.
"A true friend has left on his final leg and the sailing world will never be the same without Magnus and his smile. Never.
Sailing photographer Rick Tomlinson also described Olsson, nicknamed Mange as an inspiration.
“I was lucky to race in four Whitbreads with Magnus: Drum, The Card, Intrum Justitia and one leg with EF Language, and to photograph him in three Volvo races. He always had time for you, and you always felt better just for meeting him. Sail on my friend, the world has lost the most inspiring man.”
Swedish sailor Roger Nilson who raced 80,000 nms with Olsson in three races added: “I am forever grateful to have had Magnus in my life. He has made a tremendous difference for me as well as for many others. I will forever remember our many shared hours under star-filled skies or in stormy nights, never knowing what lies ahead, enjoying that moment on our beloved oceans.”
