Ian Walker launches third attempt at Volvo Ocean Race crown
By Kate Laven
6:07PM GMT 26 Feb 2013
Comments
Half of the eight available spots in the all new Volvo Ocean Race in 2014-15 have been snapped up with plenty of interest in the remaining places and 18 months before the start, Olympic silver medallist and two times Volvo skipper Ian Walker is sounding bullish about his chances of landing the title at his third attempt
On Saturday, the Swiss team Alinghi, owned by billionaire America's Cup winner Ernesto Bertarelli, is expected to become the fourth team to enter the race while a team from Lithuania are rumoured to have placed an order for one of the identical new Volvo One Design (VOD) 65s.
“We don't know who is racing so it would be foolish to declare ourselves pre race favourites but we are in a strong position carrying forward from the previous race,” said the recently unveiled Abu Dhabi Ocean Racing skipper.
“I would not have done this race again if it wasn't one design - because I would not have put myself through going round the world in a slow boat again. Abu Dhabi want to win and so do I, but there will be six or seven teams with the same idea.”
Having identical boats is a radical departure for the 40 year-old race and has transformed it by reducing campaign costs and shifting the emphasis from technology to personnel.
All-female crew for Volvo Ocean Race
McDonald calls time on stellar career
Cammas rides crest of a wave
The closest race of all
Brazilian team enters 2014-15 Volvo Ocean Race and wins stopover bid
Unlike previous races, declaring early, as the all-women’s team SCA, Brazil’s Team Recife and Walker's Abu Dhabi Ocean Racing have done, offers little in the way of an advantage since the design, build and trialling of the boats will all be done by race organisers.
Even the sails are restricted with each boat supplied one training suit of seven sails and a racing set. If they get wrecked, there is nothing left in the loft with improvisation or abandonment the only option.
"You can't compare it to last time because in all previous races, it’s all been about who had the fastest boat so it was all about design and build. This time, that isn't the case.
"In the past, a lot of time was spent optimising the boat," said Walker who in 2008-09 skippered the joint Irish-Chinese entry Green Dragon to fifth place and took a second fifth as skipper of the Abu Dhabi sponsored boat Azzam in the last race. Both boats were brand new but disappointingly turned out to be slower than their counterparts.
"This time, although you still need time on the water, the marginal benefit of all that time and effort will be less. The more boat handling you do, the better the crew work but the gains will be more marginal this time."
Walker has not yet been down to the Green Marine boatyard in Southampton to see his new VOD 65 being built, mainly because unlike previously, there is little point.
"There is nothing I can change - the boat will be the boat."
What is testing him at present is working out how to win this new race. Previously, winning was all about preparation but when the fleet sets sail from Alicante in October 2014, the playing field will have different markings.
"It is the million dollar question and if I could answer that question I would be two-thirds of the way to winning. Will it be decision-making? Fitness, teamwork, individual flair, helming ability, reliability or will it be the sails?
"In a way, I am in no rush to get our boat because you are only allowed one suit of sails for training before the race and they will be your back up sails for the race so you are only going to be doing a certain amount of sailing in the boat. Doing twice as much training as everyone else could be counterproductive."
With crew numbers reduced from ten to eight, none of the previous team members – mostly Brits - are guaranteed a job in 2014. Not even the navigators who have previously been revered as game changers.
"I haven't started recruiting yet," admits Walker.
"Because it is one design, the requirement has changed. Do we need guys that can optimise sails and tune up VOR 70s or do we need one design specialists?
"Or do we need hairy old Volvo sailors because they understand the weather and know when to back off. We also have to decide whether we need a dedicated navigator if we can only have eight people on board."
In the new format, a navigator would have to be good on deck and happy to muck in rather than sit exclusively by the nav station looking at charts and weather data. Ideally he would be able to helm as well.
"Having just eight people on the boat instead of ten is a huge change. It will mean taking six helmsmen."
Once more, the Volvo Ocean Race fleet will stop in Abu Dhabi but this time, with piracy less virulent in the Indian Ocean, there will be no container ships carrying the boats part of the way.
Instead the boats are likely to sail from Recife in Brazil round the tip of South Africa and up the east coast of Africa to the straits of Hormuz. It will be a monumental leg of around 14,000 nms taking up to 40 days.
"The leg from Brazil to Abu Dhabi will be a hell of a leg," said Walker.
"Piracy has dramatically decreased and right now, I do not see any reason why we shouldn't sail it, as long as we stay close to India and Pakistan.
"We will have the Southern Ocean then have to bash through the Trade Winds then the Doldrums.... then we have go into the Gulf which is far from easy. That leg will be a race breaker and all the teams will have to be prepared for that leg.
"It's a pretty brutal route - a lot of upwind sailing so I hope we'll start a month earlier, which I believe is the plan."
Volvo has so far confirmed Recife in Brazil, Abu Dhabi, Auckland and Newport Rhode Island as stopovers and Gothenburg to host the finish. Further announcements are due over the next two weeks with China set to be added to the list, another South American port and Lorient plus Lisbon among the winners in the stopover bidding.

