http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2015/02/12/how-marco-rubio-snagged-rick-perrys-moneyman
How Marco Rubio Snagged Rick Perry's Moneyman
When former Texas Gov. Rick Perry released a list of 80 donors last week who would serve on the advisory board of his political action committee, there was one glaring omission: The Republican moneyman who helped steer his finance effort in his last run for president.
George Seay, the Dallas-based investor and well-connected grandson of former Texas Gov. William Clements, felt he had a duty to support Perry’s late entry into the 2012 White House campaign and without hesitation signed on as his Texas finance chairman.
[READ: Team Rubio Huddles on 2016]
Not this round.
Seay has already pledged to help Florida Sen. Marco Rubio if the freshman GOP lawmaker decides to turn the ignition on a 2016 presidential bid, a prospect that looks increasingly likely. (One Rubio ally pegged the current chance at 60 percent.)
“He’s my closest friend in the field,” Seay tells U.S. News. “I’ve become a closer friend of Marco than I was of Rick’s. If Rubio runs, I’m with him.”
Rubio’s coup in snagging Seay is a window into the senator’s keen ability to ingratiate himself with well-heeled donors behind closed doors and his knack for continuing to grease those relationships – underappreciated assets of his political portfolio.
Seay first encountered Rubio when he agreed to hold several fundraising events in Texas for the aspirant's U.S. Senate run in 2010.
“We just hit it off, immediately got along,” Seay says.
After Rubio won, they stayed in touch.
A year after his election to the Senate, Rubio was back in Dallas for a Hispanic outreach event that was personally important to Seay.
It went so well that Seay asked Rubio to return for another visit to Houston in August 2012, and the senator’s remarks there frequently drew applause.
It was sometime around that time, in the midst of Mitt Romney’s campaign to unseat President Barack Obama, Seay recalls, that he made up his mind that he would be with Rubio in the next campaign.
In particular, Seay cites Rubio’s “humility and goodwill to all” as the traits that stuck with him.
“Irrespective of wealth, power, anything, he treats everyone the same – with dignity, respect and courtesy,” Seay says.
[ALSO: Jeb Bush May Ransack a 2016 Marco Rubio Run]
Last spring, Rubio trekked to Austin to speak at the University of Texas’ Clements Center for History, Strategy and Statecraft, a nonpartisan research and policy hub created to honor Seay's grandfather. Seay serves as chairman of the center. ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​
Rubio’s performance there only cemented Seay’s belief that Rubio “was the best person to be the next president, no matter who else ran.”
“He’s a real student on policy. He peels the onion 40 layers,” Seay says. “He just blew the whole audience away.”
Wayne Berman, a veteran GOP fundraiser who has also signed on to a potential Rubio presidential effort, says Seay’s relative youth for a thoroughly networked donor – he’s 47 – may allow Rubio to open up newer, untapped pockets of support.
"He has a large network outside of Texas – in Oklahoma, Missouri, some of the oil states – and because he's a bit younger he can reach those sets​ of donors in their 30s and 40s,” Berman says of Seay.
Seay has only kind words for Perry, whom he has known since 1996, but says there was no need to formally sever ties. Perry is also ramping up toward his own presidential decision this spring.
“With that decision made long ago … there really wasn’t anything to discuss with Rick or his latest professional team,” Seay says.
If Rubio does not run, Seay would re-evaluate, but says he’d be inclined to lean toward another Florida Republican – former Gov. Jeb Bush – or Wisconsin GOP ​Gov. Scott Walker.
