http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2015/02/04/jeb-bush-outlines-vision-on-economic-growth-education-immigration
Jeb Bush's Policy Doctrine
Jeb Bush on Wednesday outlined his broadest policy vision since announcing his exploration of a presidential run, calling the “opportunity gap” the country’s defining issue and shaping his controversial education and immigration views around the goal of economic growth.
[READ: Christie, Bush Confront Iowa Conundrum]
In a speech to the Detroit Economic Club, the former Florida governor lamented a feeble economic recovery that hasn’t shown up in Americans’ paychecks, due to what he described as a hulking and inefficient government that’s stifled freedom and innovation.
“If you want to close the opportunity gap, grow the economy. If a law or a rule doesn’t contribute to growth, why do it? If a law subtracts from growth, why are we discussing it?” Bush asked. “I don’t think the United States should settle for anything less than 4 percent growth a year, which is about twice the current run rate.”
Bush, a Republican, said he would offer more substantive details on how to achieve that rate of growth in the coming weeks, as he appears to be inching closer to launching a 2016 White House campaign.
But central to his plan to accelerate the nation’s economic prosperity is education, a deeply held passion that was a focal point during his two terms as Florida’s governor.
To ultimately shrink the income gap, Bush said the country needs to transform its K-12 grade school system to include more accountability for teachers, higher standards for students and additional options for parents, including charter and private schools.
While never uttering the words “Common Core” – the name of the Bush-backed set of education standards that have earned the potential candidate the ire of conservatives in his party – he showed no sign of backing away from the coming fight, touting his results in Florida among African-American and Hispanic students.
“Believe me, the tire marks on my forehead are there for this reason,” Bush said, making reference to the obstacles he faced in his own state in implementing reforms.
But he cited a 25 percent increase in the graduation rate since his governorship concluded, and Hispanic students who now perform two grades ahead of the national average.
[ALSO: Bold or Bully: Jeb Bush's 2016 Image Problem]
“We moved the needle in student learning. We have seen lives changed and hope restored,” he said.
As if hoping to summon his audience to catch his ardor on the issue, Bush said, “I’d like to see more people marching in the streets for rising student achievement.”
Bush also framed his more moderate approach to immigration as an “opportunity to go get that 4 percent growth.”
He proposed shifting away from a system that allows immigrants to come to the U.S. for family reunification and instead expanding the availability of work permits. While he briefly mentioned the importance of securing the border, his tone was clearly meant to convey an open approach that leverages the drive and skills of immigrants who are drawn to America.
“Investors, dreamers, people that come to our great universities, all these people should be welcome in our country. And the unwritten contract should be, 'Embrace our values and you can pursue your dreams in this great country, and in doing so, you’re creating opportunity for more people,’” he said. “'You come, you work hard, you embrace these values and you’re as American as anybody who came in on the Mayflower.'”
That remark earned him a notable round of applause from an audience full of regional business leaders, who have a direct interest in immigration reform.
Bush did not directly address how to handle the estimated 11 million immigrants currently in the U.S. illegally, but his approach is a clear break from conservative hard-liners whose sole focus is on enhancing border security.
[OPINION: Jeb Bush Is the Mitt Romney of the 2016 GOP Presidential Cycle]
In a question-and-answer session following his speech, Bush addressed what it would be like running for a third Bush presidency.
Espousing only love and admiration for his father and brother, he acknowledged he faced an “interesting challenge” and said, “I’m going to have to do it on my own.”
Bush also signaled he intends to wage a positive, uplifting campaign, even as he anticipates a rough-and-tumble primary competition. He expressed disinterest in tearing his opponents down, saying such an approach only foments “disunity.”
“I hope I have the discipline not to turn back and get into the food fights,” he said. “We shall see.”
A wide list of Republican rivals, as well as Democrats, will certainly test that lofty proposition.
A spokesman for the Democratic National Committee charged that Bush’s speech Wednesday attempted to whitewash his gubernatorial record, when he “lined the pockets of the wealthy and big businesses with tax cuts, at the expense of working families and their children.”
