http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2015/01/30/mitt-romney-bows-out-of-2016-race
Mitt Romney Bows Out of 2016 Race
Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican nominee, all but closed the door on another presidential run Friday after weeks of moves telegraphing he was poised to wage a third consecutive bid.
“After putting considerable thought into making another run for president, I’ve decided it is best to give other leaders in the Party the opportunity to become our next nominee,” Romney told supporters, according to a statement obtained by conservative radio talk show host Hugh Hewitt.
[READ: The First Phase Of The GOP Primary Has Begun]
In his remarks, the former Massachusetts governor maintained he still could’ve won the nomination, but said he did not want his entry into a crowded primary field to “make it more difficult for someone else” to become president.
Asked if circumstances could change again –-- like they had over the past month when he reopened the door to a 2016 campaign –-- Romney allowed, “That seems unlikely.”
“Accordingly, I’m not organizing a PAC or taking donations; I’m not hiring a campaign team,” he said in the remarks.
“He made it clear everybody’s a free agent now. He’s turning everybody loose,” says Ted Kanavas, the chairman of Romney’s 2012 campaign in Wisconsin who was on the 11 a.m.A.M ET call. “He said, ‘Go and sign up with another campaign,’ which is awesome.”
Romney’s decision is a boon to former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, who will vie for establishment donors and operatives who occupy the center-right portion of the party.
Early polling shows Romney at the top of the GOP primary field, a factor that encouraged him to take another gander at the race after months of saying he would not do so.
[ALSO: GOP Hopefuls Descend on Iowa]
“This is good news for Jeb Bush obviously. A lot of the people that were going to bundle for Mitt Romney will bundle for Jeb Bush,” Kanavas says.
Romney’s move also puts an array of conflicted supporters like Kanavas at ease.
Kanavas, like many other operatives and donors, went into the call assuming Romney would say he was running again.
But, haunted by the mistakes of the 2012 campaign, he was reluctant to sign on, – a growing reality that Romney’s team was faced with.
"I was very disappointed with the way Boston handled the general election. They kind of blocked off outside advice,” he says.
But now, he’s free to support Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, who is likely to formalize a campaign in the coming months.
“We’ve got a hometown boy running for president,” Kanavas says.
