http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2014/12/22/rand-pauls-rapid-response
Rand Paul's Rapid Response
Sen. Rand Paul has become a frequent target of his 2016 Republican presidential rivals, but be warned: The Kentuckian strikes back.
The recent tiff with Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida is just the latest example.
[READ: Paul, Huckabee Take Differing Tones on Police Use of Force]
After Rubio appeared on Fox News and took a direct shot at Paul's support for President Barack Obama's move to normalize relations with Cuba, Paul spent Friday afternoon sending a series of rolling tweets to respond.
The most stinging yet clever rebuttal was Paul's move to take his own perceived weakness and apply it to Rubio:
Senator @marcorubio is acting like an isolationist who wants to retreat to our borders and perhaps build a moat. I reject this isolationism.
Rubio declined to respond until Sunday, when he appeared on NBC's "Meet the Press."
“If [Paul] wants to align himself and become a supporter of the Obama foreign policy, particularly towards Cuba, that’s his right," Rubio said.
It wasn't long before Paul was back on Twitter with another salvo:
.@marcorubio forgot to mention his support for Obama's funding of Musl. Brotherhood, arming Islamic rebels, and Hillary's war in Libya.
This rapid response to any incoming critique has been Paul's posture for a while now.
In the summer of 2013, when New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie warned of "a strain of libertarianism" creeping into the national conversation, Paul responded in kind by branding Christie a big government Republican "unwilling to cut the spending."
In March, after Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, said he did not agree with Paul's foreign policy and aligned himself with former President Ronald Reagan, Paul published an op-ed for the conservative Breitbart news outlet.
"I will remind anyone who thinks we will win elections by trashing previous Republican nominees or holding oneself out as some paragon in the mold of (Ronald) Reagan, that splintering the party is not the route to victory," Paul wrote.
[ALSO: Ted Cruz: The Most Hawkish of Them All?]
And when GOP Texas Gov. Rick Perry slammed Paul for "ignoring" the chaos spurred by the Islamic State group this summer, Paul quickly responded with an op-ed of his own, slicing apart Perry's arguments.
The pattern is clear: When you launch an attack on Paul's worldview – even a glancing or indirect one – he will respond with force.
Paul realizes his complicated foreign policy beliefs are his biggest impediment to attaining the GOP nomination , and he's decided to abide by the old political axiom that every attack merits a counterattack.
In his dispute with Christie in 2013, he warned this is the approach he would take: “I didn’t start this one, and I don’t plan on starting things by criticizing other Republicans,” he said, according to The Associated Press. “But if they want to make me the target, they will get it back in spades.”
