http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/run-2016/2014/11/19/gop-governors-sue-obama-over-immigration
GOP Governors: Sue Obama Over Immigration
BOCA RATON, Fla. – Republican governors suggested the best counter to President Barack Obama’s pending executive action on illegal immigration may be taking him to court.
At a GOP conference here Wednesday, at least two governors contemplating runs for the presidency in 2016 said legal action is likely the best way to stop Obama’s move to grant legal status to millions of undocumented workers.
[VOTE: Should Obama Act Unilaterally on Immigration Reform?]
Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker said the GOP should head to court to try to halt the move and outgoing Texas Gov. Rick Perry signaled his state could be a leading plaintiff.
“I would think that there’s probably a very real possibility,” Perry said in a response to a question during an afternoon panel session about a lawsuit. “In his own words, a year ago, he said this was not legal.”
Perry leaves office in January but will be succeeded by Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott, a Republican who has already clashed with the president.
“Over the last six years when [Abbott] was asked, ‘What do you do?’ He said, ‘I go to the office. I sue Obama and I go home,’” Perry said, eliciting laughter.
Obama announced Wednesday he would address the nation Thursday night on his plan to shield an estimated 5 million unauthorized immigrants from deportation. He has said he would act unilaterally on the issue since Congress has failed to do so.
[READ: Michael Dukakis on Hillary, Warren and Jeb]
The U.S. House voted this summer to sue the president over making changes to his sweeping health care law, but it’s unclear if that challenge holds legal merit.
Similar questions will be raised by any efforts to litigate the president’s executive authority on immigration, which has been used in the past by Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush.
But GOP governors were united in their vehement opposition to Obama’s planned move. Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal dubbed it “the height of arrogance.” Indiana Gov. Mike Pence called it a “profound mistake” and implored Obama to reconsider. Perry said the political fallout could damage the Democratic Party for years.
“I think he jeopardizes long-term, Democrats ever to get back power again in Washington, D.C.,” Perry said.
At least six sitting chief executives in attendance at the Republican Governors Association conference are contemplating White House campaigns.
