http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/washington-whispers/2015/02/23/last-call-by-throwing-bombs-at-obamas-patriotism-giuliani-illuminates-rights-anxieties
Last Call: By Throwing Bombs at Obama's Patriotism, Giuliani Illuminates Right's Anxieties
When Rudy Giuliani told a roomful of Republican heavyweights that President Barack Obama doesn’t love America, he got more political blowback than he’d probably expected, including feature-length resurrections of his failed marriages and his dead-in-the-water 2008 presidential nomination, as well as a scolding of sorts from Fox News, of all places.
For the most part, the nation yawned. Been there, done that, got the Obamacare.
On the right, however, the message played like the Sermon on the Mount, confirming a Gospel truth: Obama isn’t one of us, and the president is a fraud. Not a single Republican leader stepped up to condemn Giuliani’s stinkbomb, and Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin – the guest of honor at the dinner and a would-be presidential candidate – would only say Hizzoner speaks for himself.
Andra Gillespie, a political science professor at Emory University, says the lack of GOP condemnation is simple to explain, and it goes a few steps beyond racism. Like the fabled World War II enemy soldier marooned in a deserted cave, she says a segment of the right refuses to believe that this particular battle in the broader culture wars is over.
[READ: Criticism of Obama Reaches New Level]
“There is a subset of the American population that has never fully accepted the legitimacy of the Obama presidency,” Gillespie, who specializes in race and politics, told Whispers in an email interview. “Another subset of the American population acknowledges that Barack Obama is the legitimate president; however, they so strongly disagree with his policies that they will view any critique of the president – even the most outlandish and insulting – as legitimate.”
Then, she says, there’s a third subset who feel Obama doesn't respect or believe in American exceptionalism, even though he’s said he does. Repeatedly. That segment, Gillespie said, “is really anxious about social and geopolitical changes” and worries that America’s in danger of losing its lone-superpower status.
“Their reaction is to try to affirm American exceptionalism at all costs, and they are concerned when they perceive that the president doesn’t take every opportunity to declare America great,” Gillespie said. “Giuliani can rally a following in all three groups by charging that the president is not a patriot.”
[ALSO: Republicans Like Scott Walker Still Try to Other Obama]
The fact that no Republicans stepped up to put Giuliani in his place “may stem from a desire to cultivate the idea that their party has a perceptual advantage on patriotism,” Gillespie writes. “Also, the GOP, under the guise of not playing identity politics, is still grappling with how to address racial subtexts. In addition, some may have calculated that Giuliani is behaving like a loose cannon at this point. They’re hoping that these comments exit the news cycle quickly and that this reflects on Giuliani and not the Republican Party as a whole.”
But “If the story has staying power, then Republicans might have to answer to why they didn’t quickly repudiate them,” she writes.
Though the black-president battle is over for the most part, GIllespie said, race is still a factor in the culture war writ large – think of the summer-long protests (and conservative pushback) over the police killings of unarmed black males in New York City, Cleveland and Ferguson, Missouri. Obama’s race, she says, “makes him an easier target as an ‘other’ and as some of my colleagues have argued, racial progress in America is usually met with some type of backlash. Behold the backlash.”
