http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/washington-whispers/2015/02/20/last-call-jeb-bush-will-take-a-few-questions-cpac-wants-some-answers
Last Call: Jeb Bush Will Take A Few Questions; CPAC Wants Some Answers
Three Things You Should Know (and a Cartoon):
Question Time: After two highly-publicized speeches that got meh reviews – both of which were followed by Q-and-A sessions where he really shined – Jeb Bush has made an obvious tactical decision to ditch a speech for a moderated discussion at next week’s Conservative Political Action Committee confab here in Washington. Though he’s only going for 20 minutes or so, it’s no small risk for The Smart One: The hardcore conservatives who attend CPAC think he’s a RINO (Republican In Name Only) who’s a cheerleader for Common Core (which they hate), who’s for sensible immigration reform (which they’re not) and who committed conservative heresy by suggesting that they shouldn’t be pandered to in the Republican primary (did he learn nothing from Jon Huntsman??), even if it means losing a race or two. They probably won’t greet him with pitchforks and flaming torches – emphasis on “probably” – but they’ll almost certainly turn up the heat, perhaps the first uncomfortable room Bush has faced since returning to the political arena. And it will be interesting to see what he’ll serve up from his “different Republican” cookbook to an audience whose very existence depends on a steady diet of red meat.
Doing the Math: It’s been six years and one month, almost to the day, since Barack Hussein Obama took the oath of office and became the 44th president of the United States. It’s been 46 months since the president, appearing at a press conference, held up a document certifying he was born Aug. 4, 1961, at Honolulu’s Kapiolani Medical Center – two years after Hawaii became the 50th state. It’s been 26 months since the electoral college certified Obama’s 2012 re-election, 25 months since he was inaugurated for his second term, and slightly less than 23 months until a Democrat or a Republican replaces him in the Oval Office – a lot of time and not a lot of time, by the paradoxical standards of politics. Meanwhile, it’s been seven years since Rudy Giuliani dropped out of the 2008 Republican presidential primary campaign, and 13 years since his term ended as New York mayor, his first and only elected office. Given that, it’s still a challenge why, with apologies to HBO host John Oliver, this is a thing:
Keep Eyes on That Giuliani Dude: When Obama convened a summit on countering violent extremism, his decision to keep the word “Islamic” out of the title drew a lot of flak from the right, largely because of all those beheading videos and jihadi recruitment and what not. But a new Department of Homeland Security report suggests the word “domestic” could have easily fit there. CNN reports DHS believes far-right, sovereign extremists – think survivalist “militias,” heavily-armed, virulent anti-government types like Nevada rancher Cliven Bundy or Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh – pose as big a risk to domestic security as Islamic State group or an al Qaeda bomb plot. Only they don’t have slickly produced videos or Medieval execution techniques. Exhibit A: Jerad Miller, who supported Bundy at his ranch, then went on a killing spree in Las Vegas last June, gunning down two police officers.
Drawn Conclusion:
