Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker Denies That He's Flip-flopped on Immigration
Gov. Scott Walker dismissed claims that he is a flip-flopper on immigration today, saying that it's "just a narrative from the other campaigns in response to the fact that we have a strong reputation for keeping our word.
"This is one that we listened to the people all across the country-particularly the board of governors-and saw how this president messed that up and that's an issue where I think people want leaders who are willing to listen to people," Walker told media scrum after his speech at a state GOP event here.
A crowd of a couple dozen union workers were parading the street in front of Concord High School ahead of his speech. The Wisconsin governor's union-busting initiatives preceded him and had Teamsters protesting his remarks comparing unionized workers to ISIS/ The protesters left as snow started falling an hour before Walker's keynote address.






The supporters inside, who had attended two hours of talks on training for getting out the vote, were the most excited about Walker's stance on "safety," or how he likes to refer to national security.
"Our biggest threat is radical Islamic terrorism and we will do whatever it takes to root it out anywhere in the world," Walker said. "I don't know about all of you but I'd like to take the fight to them before it comes to us on American soil."
Walker made a point to show his "everyman" roots, telling not only about his love of Kohls cash and their mailers, but also touting that he bought the brown sweater he was wearing just yesterday for $1. "Living the high life," he joked.
The first two hours of this morning's events at the 2016 Kickoff Grassroots Training hosted by the New Hampshire GOP were closed to press, like the rest of Walker's trip to the Granite State. He arrived late Thursday night and had a series of private meetings with state leaders Friday morning, including former New Hampshire Gov. John Sununu, former Mass. Sen. Scott Brown, and Manchester mayor Ted Gatsas, Walker's aide confirmed to ABC News.
Walker, who is eyeing a run for the GOP presidential nomination, leaves for Washington, D.C., tonight to attend the gridiron dinner.

