http://www.nationaljournal.com/the-cook-report/the-trouble-with-being-jeb-bush-20150313
The Trouble With Being Jeb Bush - NationalJournal.com
For some time, polls have found former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush with higher negative ratings than one might expect of someone who has never before run for president or, until recently, maintained a high national political profile. In the newly released NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll conducted March 1 through 5, among 1,000 adults nationwide, 34 percent of those who were asked how they felt about Bush had either "somewhat negative" (20 percent) or "very negative" (14 percent) feelings about him, with just 23 percent expressing positive impressions (4 percent "very positive," 19 percent "somewhat positive"). Bush's net rating (positive minus negative) on this personal thermometer was -11 points, putting him at the bottom of the list of the nine public figures (and one institution) the survey asked about. Bush's brother, former President George W. Bush, had a net rating of -4; Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker -1; President Obama +1; Federal Reserve Board Chairman Janet Yellen +6; Sen. Elizabeth Warren +7; former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton +8; the U.S. Federal Reserve +10; and former President Bill Clinton +30.
While 86 percent of those who identified themselves as Democratic primary voters said they could see themselves supporting Clinton (13 percent could not), just 49 percent of Republican primary voters said they could see themselves supporting Jeb Bush (42 percent said they could not). Indeed, greater percentages of Republican primary voters were able to envision supporting Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, or Walker, or former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, than could picture backing Bush.
(RELATED: Conservative Activists: Scott Walker Has Best Shot at Beating Hillary Clinton)
When asked to choose between two statements—"This is a time when it is important to look for a more experienced and tested person even if he or she brings fewer changes to the current policies," and "This is a time when it is important to look for a person who will bring greater changes to the current policies even if he or she is less experienced and tested"—59 percent chose change over experience, while just 38 percent preferred experience over change. All registered voters were then asked the same question about both Bush and Clinton: whether each represented "too much of a return to the policies of the past" or "would provide the new ideas and vision the country will need for the future." Sixty percent of those surveyed said that Bush represented a return to the past, while 27 percent said he'd provide new ideas and vision; for Clinton, 51 percent saw her as a return to the past, while 44 percent saw her bringing new ideas and vision.
While political reporters, activists, and aficionados may be quite well versed in, and genuinely disagree with, Bush's positions on specific issues, it is unlikely that many average Americans outside Florida are especially familiar with his stances at this point. It would seem, then, that Bush is simply not being seen by many people as an individual in his own right; he appears to have inherited negatives that he didn't particularly earn during his tenure as governor. The obvious conclusion is that he is being viewed as an extension of his brother—though that doesn't explain why he is less popular than George W.
()
Unquestionably, Bush is going to raise more money than any other Republican, and that gives him some advantages. But it is also clear that he faces political headwinds within his party, some related to his moderate positions on immigration and education, but some because he is somehow seen as more of a reflection of the past than Hillary Clinton is. Like an onion, this campaign is going to have lots of layers.
This article appears in the March 14, 2015 edition of National Journal Magazine as The Trouble With Being Jeb.
