Will 2016 Bring a Generational Shift in U.S. Leadership? - NationalJournal.com
This year and next are likely to represent something of a watershed period in American politics.
First, we have a "double open" presidential contest, with no incumbent running in either party. The absence of an incumbent creates a vacuum and an opportunity for change within a party—not only a strong chance of generational change but also a shift in direction, tone, and approach.
Second, with Republicans taking over both chambers of Congress and with a lame-duck Democratic president in place, both parties will be seeking to find their new paths and strategies.
At some point in the next few years, expect a shift in the Democratic congressional leadership in both the House and the Senate to a new generation of leaders. It's only a matter of time before the era of House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, Minority Whip Steny Hoyer, and Assistant Minority Leader James Clyburn gives way to a new generation of leaders for House Democrats. (Pelosi and Clyburn are 74, Hoyer is 75.) Many believe that Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid, who is 75, will step down in 2016, notwithstanding his insistence that he will be running for reelection next year. The Democratic Party's congressional leadership meetings will likely have a lot of new faces and personas in just a couple of years.
In terms of the impact of the double open presidential race, both parties will face struggles over how they see themselves and how they want voters to see them. The more obvious clash with be about ideology: On the Democratic side, that struggle is between the party's base on the left and the less rigid center-left contingent; for Republicans, it is between their base on the right and their center-right faction. Needless to say, the passion and energy in both parties of late have been in the wings and not near the center.
Very similar, but not quite identical, will be the struggles between the purists and the pragmatists in each party. One can be a committed liberal in the Democratic Party or an equally committed conservative in the Republican Party and still have, or not have, a streak of pragmatism—a willingness, at the end of the negotiating process, to end up with a deal. Sure, a legislator will want to win as many points as possible, but the goal for pragmatists is always to reach an agreement, not allowing the perfect to be the enemy of the good. As obvious as that may seem to many, to others, compromise means surrender, suggesting a lack of character and moral fiber. It is that view that is anathema to the legislative and democratic process, and it's distressingly frequent of late. Which will be the prevalent style—pragmatism or ideological purity?
Then there is the generational component. Every age cohort is shaped by the times in which it grows up. Those in the relatively small "Silent Generation," born between 1925 and 1942, found their lives shaped by the post-World War II economic boom and the heart of both the Cold War and the civil-rights struggle. Then came the enormous Baby-Boom Generation, those born between 1943 and 1962, with their worldview shaped by the tail end of the Cold War and the civil-rights era, by the Vietnam War and Watergate. Next we saw "Generation X" or the "MTV" generation, those born between 1963 and 1982, folks without the historical and social baggage that the two earlier cohorts personify. It is hard to overstate the importance of these generational changes.
Just looking at the names, from oldest to youngest, of some of the possible contenders, we start with Sen. Bernie Sanders and Vice President Joe Biden from the silent generation. Then come the baby-boomer Democrats, notably former Sen. Jim Webb, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, and Sen. Elizabeth Warren. Republican baby-boomers include former United Nations Ambassador John Bolton, Gov. Rick Perry, Dr. Ben Carson, Gov. John Kasich, former Gov. Jeb Bush, former Gov. Mike Huckabee, former Sen. Rick Santorum, Gov. Rick Snyder, Gov. Mike Pence, Democratic Sen. Amy Klobuchar, and Gov. Chris Christie. Then comes the swing to Gen-X, starting with Republican Sen. Rand Paul, Democratic Gov. Martin O'Malley, and Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, followed by other Republicans: Gov. Scott Walker, Sen. Ted Cruz, Sen. Marco Rubio, and Gov. Bobby Jindal.
Obviously, the identity of those who end up running, becoming major contenders, and winning each nomination—and, ultimately, that of the person who wins the general election—will make an enormous difference, but the political metamorphosis that will be taking place will be profound.
In a point of personal privilege, I would to note the passing of my friend and former National Journal writer, Thom Riehle, who died this past weekend. As his onetime colleague Peter Hart put it, "Thom was a remarkably talented pollster who had the depth and breadth few in the field had. He could both understand and analyze current opinions, but he had the talent to put them into a broader perspective of history and cultural patterns." Thom was an exceptional pollster, a loving husband and father, and a devoted Washington Nationals fan. He will be missed.

