http://www.nationaljournal.com/policy/insiders/transportation/tsa-screening-enters-the-spotlight-20150316
TSA Screening Enters the Spotlight - NationalJournal.com
If there's one thing that lawmakers like to talk about, it's flying. They do it a lot, and like the rest of the public, they all have war stories of inconveniences. This will make for a fun scene as the acting administrator of the Transportation Security Administration, Melvin Carraway, appears before the Senate Commerce Committee's Aviation Subcommittee to testify this week.
The committee is examining TSA's Pre-Check program, designed to allow travelers who have paid a fee and passed a background check to bypass some screening steps like removing shoes before passing through a metal detector. Pre-Check passengers also have dedicated lines for TSA screening, speeding up what most people consider the most tedious part of the airport experience. What's not to like?
As it turns out, people who are sensitive about their privacy might want to take a closer look at a request from TSA for contractor bids to conduct those Pre-Check background checks. It was posted last December and removed last week, according to The New York Times.
Among other things, TSA said the RFP that companies conducting background checks would be expected to comb through "publicly available information, such as directories, press reports, location data, and information that individuals post on blogs and social-media sites; and wide-ranging data such as purchase information, customer lists from registration websites, and self-reported information provided by consumers that is obtained by commercial data sources such as data brokers."
That's a whole lot of personal data. Granted, we are in a digital era in which most of us have a modest degree of comfort about private companies collecting information about us. I have no problem using my Harris Teeter VIC card or my CVS card every time I shop at those stores, even though I occasionally smile at what Big Data might conclude about me from my purchases—say, nail polish, ibuprofen, and Oreos. And I am routinely reminded that my tweets and Facebook status updates are fair game for all.
Still, consumer data-gathering becomes a more serious question when the government is involved, at least from a public-relations perspective. Big Data turns into Big Brother. Voters tend to frown on such things.
Deeper questions involve the government's relationship with private industry in the airport screening process. It's probably necessary for TSA to contract with professionals to conduct background checks, because such a massive task isn't a government strong suit. But the government's need for the private sector in this case also highlights a natural tensions between customer relations, a business concept, and security, a government concept. Everyone wants to be safe and comfortable, and sometimes those two statuses don't mesh.
TSA already has a tough task in balancing air travelers' need to get to their flights on time and ensuring that none of their fellow passengers get on those planes with weapons. Agency officials will have to carefully consider how to tread that same tightrope when streamlining the process for people who are willing to undergo a little more scrutiny upfront. How much easier will it be for them? What safety precautions are being sacrificed as a result? How much information does TSA really need? What if it isn't enough?
For our insiders: What are the most important tasks for TSA in conducting all passenger screenings? How should those tasks differ for frequent travelers who have already undergone prescreening? Is it appropriate to mine so much publicly available data when conducting background checks? Does it matter if publicly available consumer information becomes a government cache? Does TSA need an outside contractor to collect this information? Is it possible to expedite the screening process without compromising safety? If so, why can't it be expedited for everybody, not just those who opt for (and pay for) the fast lane?
[Note: This is a moderated blog on transportation issues. Comments are approved on a case-by-case basis. Contact me if you want to be a regular commenter.]
