http://www.nationaljournal.com/pictures-video/bald-eagles-in-washington-d-c-20150313
Bald Eagles in Washington, D.C. - NationalJournal.com

WTOP is reporting that a pair of bald eagles is nesting in the National Arboretum. Baby bald eagle watch has begun.
A bald eagle nesting in the U.S. National Arboretum (Dan Rauch/DDOE)
President Clinton watches U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Biologist Craig Koppie prepare to release a 3-year-old rehabilitated bald eagle to the wild at the Patuxent River Naval Air Station in Maryland.(LUKE FRAZZA/AFP/Getty Images)
Challenger, an American bald eagle and his trainer, Al Cecere, are surrounded by members of the media at the White House.(PAUL J. RICHARDS/AFP/Getty Images)
President Clinton with a 10-year-old American bald eagle named Challenger and Al Cecere, a bird handler from the National Foundation to Protect Eagles, after ceremonies at the White House in July 1999 in which Clinton announced the removal of the American bald eagle from the Endangered Species List.(PAUL J. RICHARDS/AFP/Getty Images)
Kevin Buchanan holds a bald eagle named America who is trying to fly off during an event at the National Zoo, July 2, 2003.(Mark Wilson/Getty Images)
Singer Dolly Parton stands next to a bald eagle named America being held by Al Cecere during an event at the National Zoo, July 2, 2003.(Mark Wilson/Getty Images)
A permanently injured bald eagle is shown at the Chesapeake Bay Environmental Center, April 2, 2004, in Grasonville, Md. (Micah Walter/Getty Images)
A permanently injured bald eagle at the Chesapeake Bay Environmental Center, April 2, 2004, in Grasonville, Md.(Micah Walter/Getty Images)
Challenger is released during an event with Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne marking the removal of the bald eagle from the Endangered Species List, June 28, 2007, at the Jefferson Memorial. (Win McNamee/Getty Images)
Challenger participates in an event marking the removal of the bald eagle from the Endangered Species List, June, 28, 2007, at the Jefferson Memorial.(KAREN BLEIER/AFP/Getty Images)
Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne looks on as Al Cecere, president and CEO of the American Eagle Foundation, releases Challenger, June, 28, 2007, at the Jefferson Memorial.(KAREN BLEIER/AFP/Getty Images)
Challenger(KAREN BLEIER/AFP/Getty Images)
Challenger on Capitol Hill, Feb. 28, 2007.(KAREN BLEIER/AFP/Getty Images)
