Survey: Small and Mid-Sized Businesses Optimistic for 2015
Small and mid-sized U.S. businesses may be in for a growth spurt in 2015, according to a new survey conducted by SunTrust Banks.
A reported 84 percent of mid-sized businesses with revenue between $10 million and $150 million are at least somewhat prepared to expand business operations this year, according to the survey. And 78 percent of small businesses with revenue between $2 million and $10 million are ready for growth.
The SunTrust/Radius Global Market Research report surveyed 532 business owners and executives. It found that 65 percent of small businesses and 78 percent of mid-sized businesses have actively planned for expansion in the last 12 months.
[MORE: PayScale Study Suggests Employer Concern Over Skills Gap]
And only 8 percent of small business respondents and 11 percent of mid-market business representatives say their company expects to downsize in the next 5 years.
“Companies through their existing people create a certain amount of capacity to service their clients. As their utilization of that capacity increases, they begin to entertain the idea of increasing the amount of capacity,” says Beau Cummins, a commercial and business banking executive at SunTrust. “And when they do that, it can have a number of implications, not the least of which might also include hiring.”
The domestic labor force exceeded expectations in February, adding 295,000 jobs in the Labor Department’s monthly employment report. January’s additions were revised down to 239,000 positions, but monthly growth in excess of 200,000 jobs for 12 consecutive months reflects employers’ willingness to bring on new hires to improve business operations.
[ALSO: Want a Better Job? Master Microsoft Word, Excel]
“For many years now, we’ve been mostly focused on the employer perspective. Are there job openings? Do employers want to hire?” says Tara Sinclair, chief economist with Indeed.com. “Whereas now what we’re seeing is there are tons of job openings. Employers definitely want to hire.”
SunTrust’s survey is another drop in the growing pool of reports suggesting business and financial optimism for the year ahead. A separate American Express/CFP Research survey published Wednesday found that 83 percent of U.S. business executives expect the domestic economy to expand in 2015, up from only 75 percent a year earlier.
And 61 percent of the corporate leaders surveyed in the American Express annual report said they expect the country’s employment situation to improve this year. Only 6 percent said they thought employment would get worse.
[ALSO: Jobs Jump, Unemployment Dips in February Labor Report]
“The business confidence has been slow to return in the middle-market and lower end of the middle-market, and we have evidence now from this survey that even in those areas our clients are pivoting from a defensive posture to offense,” says Cummins of the SunTrust report, suggesting the economic stability that "first was experienced by the large public corporate companies" in the aftermath of the Great Recession is now being seen by more modestly-sized businesses as well.
The SunTrust survey shows 61 percent of small business respondents and 67 percent of mid-sized representatives feel at least somewhat better about their financial well-being compared to a year ago.
But economic uncertainty represents survey respondents’ most commonly cited obstacle for growth. A reported 44 percent of small business respondents and 47 percent of mid-market representatives said economic instability would be at least somewhat of an obstacle in the year ahead.
Health care reform, changing government regulations and energy costs are also among respondents’ top concerns for 2015.

