Pope Francis Finds Favor Across the World
Sixty percent of the world’s population has a favorable view of Pope Francis, according to a new Pew Research Center report. Eleven percent have an unfavorable view, and 28 percent have no rating.
In 28 of the 43 countries surveyed, a majority or plurality have a favorable view of the 77-year-old pontiff. Francis leads the world’s nearly 1.1. billion Catholics.
Even though the pope is the first from Latin America, his highest support is in Europe with 84 percent thinking of him favorably. Seventy-two percent of Latin Americans had a positive opinion of him, less than the 78 percent of Americans that did.
[READ: Pope Francis Says Science and Faith Aren't at Odds]
The findings are compiled from two surveys conducted by Pew. In Latin America, 14,564 people in nine countries were surveyed between Oct. 30, 2013, and March 4, 2014. A separate survey was conducted between March 17 and June 5, 2014, of 36,430 people in 34 countries. Each country had a separate margin of error for the data collected.
In every country with a sizeable Catholic population surveyed by Pew, Catholics supported the pope at higher rates than non-Catholics. The Catholic country with the highest papal approval rating was Argentina, his home country, at 98 percent. Ghana was the Catholic country with the lowest favorable rating of the pope, at 71 percent.
In Africa and Asia, Francis is less well known. Forty-four percent of Africans offered “no rating” of the pope, as did 45 percent of Asians. Eighty-five percent of Pakistanis surveyed reported that they had no rating of Francis, the country with the highest percentage of people with no opinion.
[ALSO: Catholic Church Backs Off More Inclusive Posture Toward Gays]
His most negative ratings come in Egypt (35 percent), Jordan (34 percent) and Turkey (32 percent). In the Middle East overall, 25 percent gave Francis a favorable review.
Pope Francis took the helm of the Catholic Church when his successor unexpectedly stepped down in early 2013, and since then has galvanized Catholics and non-Catholics alike. His comments on things like income inequality and gays in the church are a marked difference from the view of his predecessor. He’s clamped down on church corruption, living a more modest lifestyle than many who came before him. Francis has also been vocal regarding sexual abuse within the Catholic Church.
Pope Francis is scheduled to visit the U.S. next year to attend the World Meeting of Families in Philadelphia. President Barack Obama met with the pontiff at the Vatican in March.


