http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/data-mine/2014/12/04/internet-freedom-declines-in-the-us
Internet Freedom Declines in the U.S.
The U.S. government created the Internet but has fallen behind as a steward of online freedom and privacy, according to an annual study that tracks international digital rights.
Government surveillance of phone and Internet data, government pressure against journalists and lack of protections for privacy have eroded America’s standing on digital rights in recent years, according to an annual study from Freedom House advocacy group.
[READ: Sony May Face Worst Corporate Hack Ever]
The U.S. dropped to sixth place out of the 65 countries assessed by Freedom House, down from fourth place in 2013 and second place in 2012. The study also scores countries' digital rights on a scale of zero (most free) to 100 (least free); the U.S. has gone from a score of 13 in 2011 and 12 in 2012 to a score of 17 in 2013 and 19 in 2014.
Source: Freedom House
Northern Europe retains the top ranks for Internet freedom, with Iceland staying in first place for the most digital rights. Estonia ranked second, followed by Canada, Australia and Germany. The five nations that ranked the worst on Internet freedom in the study are Ethiopia, Cuba, China, Syria and Iran.
The study takes into account events that occurred between May 2013 and May 2014, including news reports about Internet and phone surveillance conducted by the National Security Agency and its U.K. counterpart, the Government Communications Headquarters. Classified NSA documents leaked to the press by former agency contractor Edward Snowden galvanized a push in the tech industry and Congress to limit government surveillance.
Freedom House was concerned by news reports citing Snowden indicating that the NSA was willing to crack encryption tools that enabled anonymous chat, says Laura Reed, a research analyst at Freedom House who co-authored the report. Because of government surveillance and efforts to limit anonymous speech, lawyers, journalists and whistleblowers who speak with them have been self-censoring themselves online and on the phone, Reed says.
[ALSO: Internet Users Boom to Nearly 3 Billion as Mobile Expands]
“People don’t have as much faith in the security of their phone or internet connections so they are not as willing to talk about sensitive topics,” she told U.S. News.
Members of Congress including former Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., have pushed for several bills to protect privacy and limit surveillance but they all appear dead in the water as the current session of Congress nears an end. This failure to pass reform will likely reflect badly on America’s Internet freedom rankings in future studies.
Press freedom in the U.S. has also raised concerns from free speech advocacy groups including Reporters Without Borders, which earlier this year included America and the U.K. among its “ Enemies of the Internet” for the first time alongside China and Russia. The U.S. will remain on that list as a violator of digital rights in the group’s 2015 report, Delphine Halgand, the U.S. director of Reporters Without Borders, tells U.S. News.
Foreign nations including China and Russia are ranked low because of their repression of free speech online and their vast surveillance of Internet activity. Some repressive nations researched by the Freedom House study are using the news about NSA spying as an excuse to boost monitoring of their own networks, the advocacy group reports.
[MORE: FCC Delays Net Neutrality Rules Until 2015]
"In 2013, Freedom House documented 26 countries where government critics and human rights defenders were subjected to beatings and other types of physical violence in connection with their online activity; that number fell to 22 in 2014," according to the report.
The U.S. has also lagged behind European nations in building infrastructure to connect people to the Internet, Freedom House notes in its study. North and South America have 9 million people in rural areas living outside the reach of mobile signals that enable basic Internet connection, compared with only 3 million without cellular access in Europe, according to a recent report by the International Telecommunications Union, an agency of the United Nations. Wealthy individuals in developed regions like Europe and the Americas still account for the majority of Web users, according to the agency.

