http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/data-mine/2014/12/03/job-income-gains-to-propel-top-10-housing-markets-in-2015
Job, Income Gains to Propel Top 10 Housing Markets
Key markets to watch in 2015 for robust housing activity are mostly on the East Coast, the South and the West Coast, according to projections released Wednesday from real estate firm Trulia. And in those metro areas, post-recession investor behavior no longer drives growth; rather, Trulia says, it’s the healthier labor market, especially for young adults.
Trulia’s top 10 markets – which include Boston, Dallas and Fresno, California – have strong "fundamentals" that will stimulate housing activity, including strong job growth, which drives housing demand, and low vacancy rates, which in turn encourages more construction.
No Midwestern markets made Trulia’s list because, said Jed Kolko, Trulia’s chief economist, they have slower job growth and higher vacancy rates than other cities, despite the fact many are very affordable.
[READ: Millennials to Step Up Homebuying in 2015]
“In 2015, more markets will settle back into their long-term housing patterns. Fast-growing markets that boomed last decade, collapsed in the bust, and then rebounded are now leveling off,” Kolko wrote. “Even the markets that have been slowest to recover and have struggled longest are seeing foreclosure inventories decline and the sales mix moving back toward normal.”
Spurring the recovery from about 2012 to 2014 was the “rebound effect” of investors scooping up cheap property, including foreclosed homes. But now the rebound effect is fading, Kolko wrote, as prices normalize and investors pull back. Now job growth, rising incomes and more household formation will drive the market.
In October, home prices rose 6.4 percent year over year, down from 10.6 percent in October 2013, and Kolko says the U.S. should see more price slowing into 2015. But affordability will remain a concern as home price growth outpaces wage growth and as mortgage rates likely will edge up.
[ALSO: Employment a Bigger Driver of Home Prices, Rents]
Kolko doesn’t expect 2015 to be the year in which the American housing market reaches full recovery, but the future still looks bright.
“If 2015 brings strong job growth, big income gains and the long-awaited jump in household formation, then 2016 could be the year when we see a major turnaround in homeownership and single-family construction,” he wrote.
Data from the Labor Department already shows that 2014 has been the best year for job gains since 1999 and that the national unemployment level has fallen to the lowest in six years. A report Friday from the department could show that businesses kept up their strong pace of hiring in November.
Below are the cities that have the strong fundamentals to drive housing activity. Kolko wrote that “extra points” were given to markets with more millennials, or Americans born between 1980 and 2000.
