Who Uses Police Body Cameras and What Happens When They Do? - US News
To address the issues brought to a head with the shooting of a black teenager by a white cop in Ferguson, Missouri, the White House has unveiled an initiative that includes a push for more body cameras for police. The family of Michael Brown, the black teen shot by police officer Darren Wilson, also has advocated for their use. “Join with us in our campaign to ensure that every police officer working the streets in this country wears a body camera,” they said in a statement after Wilson was not indicted in Brown’s death.
Who currently uses body cameras?
The idea of recording law enforcement officers' interactions with civilians gained national attention in the wake of the 1991 Rodney King beating in Los Angeles. A bystander caught on tape a group of officers brutally clubbing and kicking King, a black construction worker, after a high-speed chase, and a commission subsequently was formed to assess the Los Angeles Police Department. Among its recommendations was that cameras be mounted on patrol cars; two decades later, t​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​he commission’s vision was largely not implemented.
Then in 2013, $1.2 million in private funding was raised​ for a plan to purchase 600 body-worn cameras for the Los Angeles force. ​​Other forces, including departments in Oakland and New Orleans, have started using body-worn cameras, though with different plans for implementation.
In 2013, the Police Executive Research Forum conducted a survey of law enforcement agencies that showed a quarter of the 254 agencies that responded used body cameras.
Of those 63 agencies, nearly one-third had no written policies governing the cameras' use, the forum found. Groups like the American Civil Liberties Union, which supports camera use to crack down on police brutality, have expressed privacy concerns regarding the use of body cameras. The ACLU recommends establishing practices to inform civilians that they are being recorded, especially when officers are entering a private home, and setting limits on the retention of data.
[READ: Ferguson Fallout: Obama Wants Cop Body Cams]
What effect do body cameras have on police forces?
In theory, recording police-citizen encounters promotes better behavior among civilians, discourages the use of force by cops, clearly documents instances in which there are allegations of inappropriate police conduct and wards off bogus complaints. Research into the effect of body cameras is limited, but one police force – a mid-sized department in Rialto, California – published the results of its shift to body-worn cameras. When some members of the force began wearing cameras in February of 2012, instances in which force was used dropped significantly, as did complaints of police misconduct.
Using a control group, the Rialto study found the use of force was cut by half in shifts where cameras were employed, and that officers not wearing cameras received three times as many complaints as those with cameras
How much do body cameras cost?
The White House is proposing to invest $75 million to help purchase 50,000 body-worn cameras. Agencies reported to the Police Executive Research Forum that they usually spend somewhere between $800 to $1,200 on each camera, but that they also had to spend tens of thousands on data storage.
However, those costs are believed to be recouped by the money saved through investigating fewer complaints. Rialto officials said that after spending about $90,000 on their program, they saved an estimated $400,000 due to the drop in complaints seen once the program was implemented.

