No Brand New Day
Let me not to the marriage of true minds/admit impediments – that's what Shakespeare said in a sonnet. That's what I say to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and House Speaker John Boehner, the new pair of Republican sheriffs on the Hill. They've got the power, as the first team of majority House and Senate Republican leaders since President Barack Obama took office.
They are also, functionally, like two Southern sheriffs walking the halls on the Hill. The next two years do not bode well for working together on any legislation that Obama might hope to pass and sign in his fourth quarter. These two bad sports are still grousing about Obamacare, which is so 2010. So far in 2015, the first major bill McConnell has brought to the floor for debate is one Obama indicated he'd veto: building the Keystone XL pipeline.
To be fair, however, Boehner is such a sullen troublemaker that he makes crafty McConnell look like a statesman. Boehner actually invited the Israeli prime minister to address a joint session of Congress without even asking or consulting the White House in the middle of the Israeli election cycle. The point is not only the timing, but the absolute disregard for the president's foreign policy, which is at a delicate point right now, nearing an agreement with Iran on nuclear development issues.
[SEE: Political Cartoons on the Republican Party]
Washington is reaching for smelling salts at this breach. In the annals of House history, it is an extraordinary act.
Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, accepted the invitation, which is equally an outrage on the world stage. "Bibi," as he is universally known, risks becoming a persona non grata to the president of the United States and its allies. A difficult man who refuses to stop building settlements on disputed territory, he does not deserve the grace Obama has shown him over the years. A peacemaker he's not; he thrives on confrontation. Obama then quickly snubbed Netanyahu by refusing to meet a foreign leader in an election cycle at the White House. (Protocol frowns on such a thing.) "Shalom, Shalom, Bibi" might be translated as: go home, good-bye.
What an odd way for Israel, supposedly a close friend and ally of the United States, to act.
You may think that McConnell is a Southerner because he's from Kentucky. Check. And you may think Boehner's a Midwesterner because he's from Ohio. But you'd be wrong. Culturally, he comes from the Southern part of Ohio, encompassing Cincinnati, and if you've ever been there, you can feel and hear the Southern accent. So consider Congress under control of two "old bulls," the slang for the Southerners who used to dominate Congress 50 years ago.
Clearly, they mean to use their power "right" away. At the president's spirited State of the Union speech last week, McConnell kept a stone face through the hour and fifteen minutes. (I was watching from the press gallery.) In a ruder display of partisanship, Boehner sat right behind Obama and barely changed his dour scowl as 30 million Americans watched in wonder.
[SEE: Congress Cartoons]
On the CBS News "60 Minutes" show that aired Sunday, seldom did the words "President Obama" escape their lips in an interview with CBS News anchor Scott Pelley. That's small stuff, their standard disrespect, in front of many more millions of Americans.
But it is code, to friends and foes, to signal they are hardliners to the bitter end. There is no brand new day of bipartisanship. All things being equal, they'd like to see Obama fail rather than succeed. Personally, they don't appear to have any amity for the president chosen by the people. There used to be more of that, if I remember rightly: good will.
Public opinion may run against the hard right turn on the Hill. McConnell and Boehner will not change their stance – though McConnell may have a moment's private heartburn over the Netanyahu debacle Boehner started. He has better judgment.
So let the donnybrook begin along Pennsylvania Avenue. On the White House end, it may be a good thing that there are no illusions anymore, after Obama spent years courting Boehner to no avail.
Everything is out in the open, on both sides now.

