1994 All Over Again
Greetings from weary Washington. We feel like it's 1994 all over again.
That was when Congress changed colors and stripes overnight to red in both chambers. Newt Gingrich, suddenly speaker of the House, was the principal engineer of the change. On the Senate side, James Inhofe was one of the freshman Republican senators blown in by the winds on the plains of Oklahoma. Now, with a Republican majority back in power, the hard-charging Inhofe will become chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. Inhofe represents the drastic policy change a-coming, for he's actively hostile to the scientific consensus on climate change.
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on Barack Obama]
Heck yeah, elections matter, whether you vote or not. And that may be the real story of the election: that two-thirds of the electorate found no reason to vote. The American people are feeling checked out and disconnected, tired of making ends meet with no raise in years. Maybe some figured it wasn't worth their time to vote. The sour campaigns run by both parties were anything but inspiring. The extent of Democratic disavowal of their own party leader, President Barack Obama, was extreme. He's a great campaigner, remember? It's governing that he needs to work on.
The only ray of light this week in Washington was the 60th anniversary of "Face the Nation." Bob Schieffer, chief Washington correspondent for CBS News, has moderated the Sunday talk show for 23 years and has earned the trust of just about everybody on both sides of the party aisle. I know Bob, as do most people in this line of work, and consider him a beacon of civility. I especially enjoy his brief, wise commentaries. He takes pride in a handsome office that once belonged to Eric Sevareid.
Not that he won't ask tough questions. For the special 60th anniversary show, he asked Obama in the Oval Office, "Do you like politics? Do you like this job?"
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on 2014 Congressional Elections]
Schieffer was searching, in his friendly, folksy way, for something that has weighed on the American mind. It comes up in table talk. Why doesn't Obama relish the game, the sport of politics? You know, holding friends close and enemies closer? Doing deals and trades? I've often thought the president did not fully appreciate that politics is like football, a bruising contact sport. He prefers the more elegant game of basketball. Golf, too, fits his more cerebral and reserved nature.
For the next two years, the fourth quarter, let's accept that Obama is a nut that won't crack. A man of the people while on the stump is not so much "one of us" in office. It's curious but the paradox is right in front of us.
Schieffer, in a conversation with correspondent Jeff Glor on Washington culture, said politicians used to live and socialize here and send their children to the same schools. Family friendships across party lines were taken for granted. Is it any accident that landmark legislation on civil rights and the environment passed in those days not so long ago? Gentlemanly Lee Hamilton, the former House Democrat who chaired the foreign affairs committee, is the kind of old-school lawmaker Schieffer talked about.
[SEE: Political Cartoons on the Republican Party]
The 1994 election was a sea change. Scores of new Republicans came to Washington determined to remain outsiders. They left their families in their districts and flew home on the weekends. Going to the John F. Kennedy Center for a concert or getting to know each other was not part of their ground game. A few House members even slept in their offices. Gingrich's army changed things for good. And so bonds have broken down, as the song goes. Rancor rose in the House and then the more collegial Senate. Congress has gotten nothing done in months and years, as Schieffer notes on the broadcast.
Obama assured Schieffer that he loves his job, for the record. And Schieffer told CBS News colleagues that he's the luckiest guy in the world. So there we have it: the two happiest guys in a town that has seen better days.

