Not Letting the Land Mine Win
The distinguished author and journalist Robert Timberg is a Marine who writes like a dream. In a clear confiding voice, his autobiography "Blue-Eyed Boy" speaks to you like an American Proust, straight from the start: “Falling asleep is never a problem for me. Waking up always is.” As he approached age 70, he at last let himself look back at the jagged scenery of his life, at his son Craig’s urging. There’s a hardwon beauty in those crevices.
But Timberg had much bigger peaks to scale than sweet Marcel, Proust’s Parisien alter-ego, who starts out saying: for a long time I went to bed early. Timberg’s Vietnam War wound cleaves his life in two, before and after. His face was burned beyond recognition by a land mine, an injury that required 30 reconstructive surgeries. But still they did not bring back the “reasonably good-looking” young married man he was. That sense of self was gone forever.
The self he knew was a U.S. Naval Academy class of ’64 ring-wearer with brash confidence. He was a trained officer and warrior in the days of the ‘60s, before America ever lost a war. If this were an American novel, surely nothing is more stark as a symbol of loss than a literal loss of face. The pain is even more palpable throughout these journal-like pages, which Timberg reports like the pro he is. He expresses love and regret for both of his ex-wives and sums up his journey as meeting his need to fulfill his destiny and “not let a land mine win.”
[SEE: Cartoons on President Obama]
Timberg’s self-portrait, scars and all, strikes me as reliable, as I know him somewhat from my newspaper days. His fierce ambition is tempered by irony, a generous spirit and his dancing stories. This iron drive takes him toward an unlikely profession, chosen with his wife Janie from a hospital bed. They decide he should go to graduate school in journalism at Stanford University.
By the time he applied for jobs, he wryly notes, he was closing in on 30 and still learning to type. He starts out as a reporter at the Annapolis Evening Capital, right in the Academy’s bird’s nest. Reporting stories was the best therapy, because he felt back in the swing of life. “I had no sense of being disfigured,” he wrote. The sense of feeling at home in a new found world pervades other struggles in his life. In passages praising his friend, the late reporter and author Richard Ben Cramer, Timberg conjures some of the (scarce) zany zest of a big city newsroom.
Timberg’s important new memoir – "Blue-Eyed Boy" comes from an e.e. cummings poem – is a personal sequel to "The Nightingale’s Song," a study of five Academy peers who went to war and later became embroiled in politics during the Reagan ‘80s, for better or worse. He makes no secret of his fondness for the exuberant Sen. John McCain, who survived more than five years of captivity in the Hanoi Hilton. He also probed then-Secretary of the Navy James Webb, Admiral John Poindexter, Bud McFarlane and Oliver North. (The latter needed “adult supervision.”)
[READ: No Endgame in Gaza]
The unifying peg at first was the Iran-Contra affair. Timberg took a few years off from his longtime newspaper, The Baltimore Sun, to analyze the men who opened up their “back stories” – not because he was a journalist, but because they belonged to the same band of brothers. Thus he became a translator, explaining the military elite who had served in the Vietnam War to the civilian mainstream. It was aggressive, actually, a counterattack on those who dodged the draft. Same is true in the memoir. Timberg says he is “unsparing of the able-bodied men of my generation who employed various forms of subterfuge” to avoid serving in Vietnam. That scar has not healed, either.
Timberg’s memoir is a searing loss of innocence tale, one that may address a wider swath of college baby boomers in the 1960s than he thought. Whatever side you were on when it came to the Vietnam War, it ended badly. Nobody won. America suffered a shattering loss of innocence over that war, starting in 1967, the year Timberg – who goes by "Bob" – lost the man in the mirror.
Then comes the best part of his journey: a mordant tale told of adult resurrection.

