Arlington's New Narrative
Confederate General Robert E. Lee, a fine individual on the wrong side of history, is surfacing again, 149 years after “The Surrender.” Since the Civil War, his legend has been burnished by admiring authors and statesmen, portraying him as a noble courtly character. To this day, new biographies treat him as if he’s a tenderly flawed hero.
A plan is afoot to fix up his mansion at Arlington and restore its antebellum splendor. It sits on a plum piece of land in Virginia, by the beautiful blue Potomac River overlooking the city of Washington. You may know the place as Arlington national cemetery.
David Rubenstein, the philanthropist who just gave $12.3 million to spruce up the mansion high on the hill, told The Washington Post that he was motivated by a dearth of historical literacy. He’d like to see boys and girls, men and women, all of us more up on the past. Fair enough.
But the facts need fixing, too, in this haunted house of untold American history. The National Park Service, which owns the old Lee Greek revival manse, does not have a coherent story line for Lee and the rolling plantation acres he owned as a major slaveholder. Often visitors leave without grasping that our national military cemetery once was land tilled by slaves, Lee’s family-owned slaves.
[SEE: Political Cartoons]
How did that happen? It’s a story in which the new president, Abraham Lincoln, confronts Lee, a career Army officer who cuts a figure on horseback. The president offered him a high command in the Union Army, as both sides prepared for war in 1861. Lee said no and followed his heart home to Virginia. Lincoln and Lee never met, but we can be sure the drama on both sides was high-stakes. Lincoln must have felt furious and deserted.
Now, with the Rubenstein gift comes an opening to start the narrative anew and true. Say, National Park Service, let’s show how Arlington was the fateful meeting place of America’s past and future. Point out that Lee as a “planter” represented land wealth and class privilege on the backs of enslaved people. A West Pointer, he turned his back on the Army. A man of the past, he put his state over his country. Lincoln was a roughhewn railroad lawyer, a self-made man who represented the future of the nation, with the emphasis on “United.”
Lincoln dispossessed the Lee family from their rather grand home, with porches and parlors. It made for the perfect venue for an Army camp; the overlook was a strategic vantage point. Nothing is more direct and personal than losing the roof over one’s head. Neither Lincoln nor Lee was present when Mrs. Mary Lee cleared out, but both had to feel it keenly.
[READ: More by Jamie Stiehm]
The message was clear: By occupying Lee’s home and land, the war was getting personal. Burying Union soldiers in Mrs. Lee’s flower garden, as one officer did, was a way to say the soil is watered with the blood of our young men. Such powerful symbolism was not lost on the population, civilian and military, on both sides.
As the war wore on, Arlington was the home front's most visible theater of the Union’s progress and claim on the very ground itself, which became hallowed as more bodies were buried there.
The four bloody years of the Civil War lasted until there was no tomorrow for the Confederacy. Lee could have surrendered sooner; after the Battle of Gettysburg, there was no way to win, unless the Union stumbled badly or lost its will.
After surrendering in his gray dress uniform, Lee was gallant in defeat. But he could not go home again. His old order was gone. A new spring wind stirred the air.

