Obama Practices Personal Diplomacy in India
President Barack Obama's current foreign trip highlights the importance of personal diplomacy in the conduct of international affairs, an approach to governing that Obama hasn't used as much as some of his predecessors.
One reason why Obama has managed to achieve a variety of agreements with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi is because the two leaders have developed a personal friendship, White House aides say. This became clear when they announced a pact aimed at encouraging American companies to eventually build nuclear power plants in India. Even though important details remain to be worked out, Obama hailed the understanding as an example of international cooperation. "We achieved a breakthrough understanding on two issues that were holding up our ability to advance our civil nuclear cooperation, and we're committed to moving towards full implementation," Obama said during his visit to New Delhi. "And this is an important step that shows how we can work together to elevate our relationship."
[READ: Obama, Modi Declare Ea of 'New Trust' in U.S.-India Relations]
Obama and Modi also announced the renewal of a defense agreement, revealed plans for joint production of military equipment, and said their governments would continue working to reduce greenhouse gases that cause global warming.
None of the agreements was earth-shattering. But taken collectively, they represented a degree of progress in improving the relationship between Washington and New Delhi, and that apparently was partly because Obama and Modi have come to respect and trust each other.
Obama called their relationship a "new partnership" and Modi, referring to the president as "Barack," thanked Obama for his "deep personal commitment" to their friendship.
Obama seems to be seeking the same personal partnership with King Salman of Saudi Arabia, who succeeded to the throne upon the death Friday of the last monarch, King Abdullah. Obama cut short his visit to India so he could meet with Salman in Saudi Arabia later this week and begin fostering a closer relationship.
[READ: Saudi Arabia's New King Salman Inherits Existing, Emerging Threats From Iran, Yemen]
Obama critics say the president would do well to extend his relationship-building at home, notably to Capitol Hill where his contact with opposition Republicans has been minimal and where the relationships have turned very sour. The latest example was House Speaker John Boehner's invitation to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to address a joint session of Congress March 3. In a breach of protocol, the invitation was extended without the knowledge of the president or other White House officials, which caused Obama to fume, the president's advisers say. Obama has served notice that he won't meet with Netanyahu while the prime minister is in town. The two already have a tense relationship, and it's likely the incident will only make it worse.
The invitation seemed to be the GOP's way of paying Obama back for bypassing the Republican majority in Congress through a series of unilateral executive actions. The Netanyahu invitation, in effect, was Boehner's way of bypassing Obama.
Among the presidents known for developing personal relationships with other leaders were Franklin D. Roosevelt, who became a close friend of British Prime Minister Winston Churchill; Ronald Reagan, who was close to British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and, eventually, to Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev; and Bill Clinton, who was close to several world leaders including those in Israel and Great Britain.

