http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/Ken-Walshs-Washington/2015/01/21/obama-faces-stiff-opposition-on-sotu-agenda
Obama Faces Stiff Opposition on SOTU Agenda
Despite all the ballyhoo, the State of the Union address leaves President Barack Obama in the same difficult spot he was in before giving the speech: He still faces stubborn opposition from majority Republicans in Congress that will make approval of his agenda highly unlikely.
As a result, Obama is left with a three-pronged strategy for his remaining two years in office: bypassing Congress with unilateral actions to carry out his policies; using his veto on legislation when he believes the GOP goes too far, and attempting to frame the 2016 election in ways that make the Republicans look out of touch.
[SOTU 2015: Obama Touts Economic Gains, Vows to Protect Signature Laws]
A confident Obama declared: "America, for all that we've endured; for all the grit and hard work required to come back; for all the tasks that lie ahead, know this: The shadow of crisis has passed." He said the economy is finally improving, with continuing growth in jobs and a thriving stock market, and he took credit for the turnaround.
"At every step," he told a joint session of Congress, "we were told our goals were misguided or too ambitious, that we would crush jobs and explode deficits. Instead, we've seen the fastest economic growth in over a decade, our deficits cut by two thirds, a stock market that has doubled, and health-care inflation at its lowest rate in 50 years."
He has already announced a series of bold unilateral actions, in defiance of his GOP critics, such as halting deportations of millions of people who entered the United States illegally; taking steps to reduce global warming, and starting to normalize relations with Cuba.
He is asking Congress to increase taxes and fees on the rich and on large financial institutions, and wants to provide more tax breaks for the middle class and offer free tuition for two years of community college. This package has little chance to survive in the GOP-controlled Congress. But it serves the political purpose of drawing a contrast with Republicans that Obama believes will help his Democratic party regain Congress and hold onto the White House in 2016, Democratic strategists say.
See Photos
Liberal Democrats applaud Obama's new sense of purpose and willingness to stand up to the GOP. But conservatives say he is too cocky and partisan. "There's a student-body presidency campaign component to this--no more homework and go home at 1 p.m.," Republican strategist Steve Schmidt told the New York Times. "....You would expect he would gain the political maturity to come into the Congress with an open hand instead of a clenched fist."
The latest polls clearly have emboldened Obama, even though his party suffered major losses in the midterm elections last November.
[ALSO: Republican Contenders Bum-Rush the State of the Union]
More Americans now say they are satisfied with the economy – 45 percent – than at any time during the past decade, according to an NBC News/Wall Street Journal survey released just before the State of the Union address. And even though 54 percent say they are still dissatisfied with the economy, Obama's job approval rating has increased to 46 percent from about 40 percent for much of 2014.
These aren't hugely impressive numbers but they do represent positive signs for Obama, and he has seized on them with an ambitious progressive agenda and a new sense of confidence that he can outmaneuver the GOP.
[ALSO: Top Tweets From the 2015 State of the Union]
Princeton historian Julian Zelizer says Obama would do well to link his efforts to grass-roots movements of different types around the country, such as through unions and environmentalists, rather than trying solely to persuade members of Congress in Washington.
Zelizer tells me that even a master legislator such as President Lyndon B. Johnson needed Martin Luther King, Jr.'s brilliantly organized mass movement on civil rights to generate grass-roots pressure on Congress. LBJ played the inside game and cajoled, bullied and sometimes sweet-talked individual legislators into going along with his civil rights and voting rights agenda. But King's movement was also pivotal in building public support. Unlike what is depicted in the controversial new film "Selma," Zelizer says Johnson and King were "partners" in 1964 and 1965, not adversaries, and this alliance gave LBJ enormous legislative power.
Zelizer, author of "The Fierce Urgency of Now: Lyndon Johnson, Congress and the Battle for the Great Society," wrote onVox.com that Johnson was able to bend Congress to his will when he had a strong liberal base, combined with conservatives who were cowed by him.
[READ: Businesses Push for 40-Hour Workweek in Obamacare Definition]
"Many of Johnson's greatest moments as president came after the election of 1964," Zelizer said. "Republicans were demoralized by the defeat of their presidential candidate Barry Goldwater, and scared to look as conservative as him. Democrats commanded massive majorities (295 in the House and 68 in the Senate), with liberals controlling the balance of power. After the 1966 midterm elections, when the conservative coalition of southern Democrats and Republicans regained their power, Johnson was far less effective."
This 1966 outcome was comparable to the backlash against Obama in the November 2014 midterm elections. That's when Republicans captured control of the Senate and added to their majority in the House.

