Obama Turns to New Media to Sell SOTU
President Barack Obama is turning to new media to get an extra boost for his State of the Union address.
Obama is scheduled to take questions Thursday from three people who have achieved fame on YouTube: Bethany Mota, who specializes in lifestyle videos; Hank Green, who generates a current events blog with his brother John Green, and GloZell, a comedian, White House officials say.
[ALSO: Top Tweets From the 2015 State of the Union]
See Photos
"In the new celebrity politics, musicians and Internet stars are much more powerful" than old-style movie stars, University of Southern California history professor Steven Rose told the Washington Post.
Obama aides acknowledge that ratings for the State of the Union address on mainstream TV have been relatively low in recent years, and they see social media as a way to reach constituencies that aren't consumers of news in traditional ways, such as young people.
About 33.3 million people watched Obama's State of the Union address on 13 TV networks in 2014, down substantially from similar speeches during his first few years in office.
[READ: President Obama’s State of the Union Address , As Prepared for Delivery]
Mota got nearly three million hits for a video in which she offered advice on how to give a New Year's Eve party. That's an audience the White House wants to tap into.
White House strategists haven't given up on the "old" media. Obama met, as is the tradition, with television news anchors at the White House to give them a preview of his speech. White House aides also privately briefed reporters. And Obama plans to make trips this week to Idaho and Kansas as part of the traditional post-State of the Union road trip to sell the president's ideas.
But it's clear that White House strategists think the media landscape has changed dramatically and they must reach out in new ways. Obama's aides are regularly generating a series of Internet videos and posts on Facebook and Twitter, sending out regular promotional messages on the White House web site, and using other techniques to supplement and in some cases circumvent the "mainstream media." Obama has even created an Office of Digital Strategies to coordinate his outreach to non-traditional media.
[ALSO: Republican Contenders Bum-Rush the State of the Union]
"It's still true that most people still get their news from television and big newspapers," White House communications director Jennifer Palmieri told the New York Times. "But if that's all you're talking to, you're missing big parts of the population. National media is going to cover a story like health care through a political lens. The average person is thinking: 'How does that health care law affect me?'"

