Obama to Seek $320 Billion in New Taxes
President Barack Obama will try to capture the country's imagination and garner its support for a bold populist agenda in his State of the Union address Tuesday evening. White House aides say he will kick off an aggressive campaign against the rich and unveil or refresh a series of unilateral actions to prove that he is not an irrelevant lame duck.
What is likely to make the biggest splash--and start another political war over taxes and income inequality--is Obama's plan to increase taxes and fees on the richest Americans and on the nation's largest financial institutions in order to finance tax cuts for the middle class and other programs.
Obama aides say he wants Congress to raise $320 billion during the next 10 years by clamping down on the rich and big businesses, and at the same time cut middle class taxes by $175 billion. The added revenue would also be used to pay for other programs such as giving many community college students free tuition for two years, a proposal that Obama advisers say would cost $60 billion over a decade.
A key provision will be to eliminate a tax shield for inherited assets, which protects hundreds of billions of dollars from taxation every year. The Obama plan also would increase the top tax rate on capital gains from the sale of stocks and the like to 28 percent from 23.8 percent for couples earning more than $500,000 a year.
Middle-class taxpayers would get a $500 credit for families in which both spouses work; more tax credits for child care and education, and additional incentives to save for retirement.
Republicans say it's a return to the tax-and-spend ways and class-warfare objectives of liberal Democrats in the past. Conservatives argue that increasing taxes, as Obama proposes, would slow economic growth and punish success. GOP leaders instead want to slash taxes, reduce spending and cut regulations.
On Sunday, congressional Republicans blasted Obama's proposals, which appear to have little chance for passage. Rep. Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, called the Obama plan a "non-starter." Chaffetz told CNN that federal officials should "quit spending this money that we don't have."
Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., a possible 2016 presidential candidate, told CBS, "The notion...that in order for some people to do better, someone has to do worse is just not true. Raising taxes on people that are successful is not going to make people that are struggling more successful...It would also be counter-productive."
Obama's economic proposals--coupled with his recent unilateral actions such as halting deportations of millions of people who entered the United States illegally, taking steps to limit climate change, and starting to normalize relations with Cuba--signal a shift by the president to a more audacious government activism.
The initiatives are designed to frame the debate in Washington for the remaining two years of Obama's presidency and help the next Democratic presidential nominee get elected in 2016. Obama hopes to portray himself and fellow Democrats as advocates of Middle America while he depicts Republicans as defenders of the wealthy, big corporations and the status quo. It's a familiar playbook. This is the populist message that many national Democrats have sent since the era of Democratic President Franklin Roosevelt in the 1930s and 1940s.
But there was a departure from this paradigm during Democratic President Bill Clinton's administration. He moved away from confronting Wall Street and the rich, and worked with Republicans, then holding a majority in Congress, to balance the federal budget, reform welfare, and enact anti-crime measures such as adding 100,000 police officers nationwide.
Republicans say Obama is starting off on the wrong foot in 2015 by confronting them after his party lost House seats to the GOP and lost its Senate majority in November's midterm elections. Now the Republicans control the entire Congress. Some GOP leaders say the best way to improve the economy is to simplify the tax code and reduce taxes, not to increase taxes to finance more big Washington programs.
But White House adviser Dan Pfeiffer told CBS Sunday, "Now that the economy's in a stronger place than it's been in a very long time, we need to double down on our efforts to deal with wage stagnation and declining economic mobility."
In trying to sell his financial package, Obama also has the problem of State of the Union fatigue. Television viewership of his most recent addresses has been lackluster. He got 33 million viewers last year, his lowest yet and down from the 52 million who watched his first address to a joint session of Congress in 2009.


