Obama's Final Campaign
A week of barnstorming that leads up to Tuesday's midterm election has become a humbling journey for President Obama.
He has been raising millions of dollars for the Democratic party but he is being shunned by many fellow party members in races for Congress. These candidates are discouraged by Obama's lowly poll numbers; only about 41 percent of voters approve of his job performance, according to Gallup. And many candidates have decided not to ask him to campaign for them in the finale of the campaign season. In fact, vulnerable Democratic candidates for the Senate are trying to distance themselves from their party leader in many states, including Alaska, Colorado, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, New Hampshire and North Carolina.
[READ: Georgia's on Their Mind in Battle for Senate]
See Photos
So Obama's final campaign swing of 2014 has him going to places that are not pivotal in the battle for control of Congress. He plans to visit Maine Thursday, for example, to campaign for Democratic gubernatorial candidate Mike Michaud and to visit Connecticut Sunday for Democratic gubernatorial candidate Dan Malloy. Obama visited Wisconsin Tuesday to stump for Democratic gubernatorial challenger Mary Burke in her race against controversial Republican Gov. Scott Walker. By focusing on governor's races, Obama doesn't call attention to local Democratic candidates for Congress who voted for Obama's agenda, which can be politically toxic in conservative areas.
As Democrats distance themselves from Obama, the president and his aides are frustrated and exasperated, according to the Washington Post. For his part, Obama believes he has been a good president and his policies should be defended, Democratic strategists close to the White House told me.
As Election Day approaches, there are more bad signs for Obama and his party in the struggle for congressional control. A new poll by the Harvard University Institute of Politics finds that 51 percent of likely "millennial" voters--people 18 to 29 years old--favor a Republican majority in Congress compared with 47 percent who favor a Democratic majority. This is a remarkable turnaround because young people had been stalwart supporters of Obama and the Democrats in recent elections. Some polls also indicate that support for Obama and the Democrats may be slipping among Latinos and women voters, two groups that had also been key parts of Obama's coalition.


