Beyond the Pale
You don’t have to look very hard on the Internet to find things that are alarming. Most of the time what you read is generally harmless. Every once in a while, however, you find something that requires not just “No” but “Hell No!” as a response.
According to The Recorder, a website that covers the California legal community, an attorney based in Huntington Beach has submitted a proposed ballot initiative to the office of the secretary of state that would bar gays and lesbians from serving in public office, make it a jailable offense to distribute “sodomistic propaganda” and establish the penalty of death by firing squad for anyone found to be in a same-sex relationship.
[GALLERY: Editorial Cartoons on Gay Marriage]
We’re not going to use his name, the name of the proposed ballot measure or any additional details, so as not to give him and his cause any more publicity. His intentions are not clear, and he did not return phone calls made to the reporter who broke the story. He may be trying to make a statement about homosexuality in contemporary society. He may be trying to erect a straw man that same-sex marriage proponents can use as a tool for fundraising and political activism. He may even, heaven forbid, be serious. Whatever his intent, his proposal is disgusting. He should crawl back under the rock whence he slithered and stay there.
A petition directed to California State Bar President Craig Holden calling for the lawyer to be disbarred is already gathering signatures. The petition described the lawyer’s actions as “disturbing and outrageous” and a “disgrace [to] the profession and the state."
[READ: Equality Is Good for Business]
Laura Ernde, a spokeswoman for the State Bar told The Recorder it was “aware of the matter” and “taking it seriously," before declining to comment further due to state law concerning the confidentiality of such investigations. A pair of legal ethicists contacted for the story by the website however “expressed doubt that the State Bar could successfully pursue disciplinary charges against” the attorney. "As corrupt and as lacking in moral character as [he] is showing himself to be, it's not clear that the State Bar has a rule that's directly applicable," Palo Alto, California, attorney John Steele, who specializes in legal ethics, told The Recorder.
One does not have to approve of same-sex marriage, which is where the debate over the overall issue is currently focused, to understand how harmful such a notion is, especially when expressed as a matter on which people are expected to vote. The constitutions of the United States and the state of California respect and protect the right of individuals to hold such opinions – no matter how bizarre and un-American they might be – and even to express them. Common sense requires the rest of us respond appropriately.
Unfortunately, there are still people among us whom the order “To the gas chambers, go” would not phase, depending on who was giving it and to whom it was directed. And we must live in peace alongside them, at least as much as possible. We are not, however, required to eat with them, have them as guests in our homes or play in the same softball league. What we can do is expose them, especially after they expose themselves, or at the very least refuse to remain silent when their idiocy is thrust out into the public square.

