Say Goodbye to an Open Internet
More than anything it seems President Barack Obama is determined to have the U.S. government take control of the Internet before he leaves office. This, of course, is oddly ironic since he and his buddies around the globe are almost equally determined to get America out of the Internet business once and for all.
To the “tech heads” that follow every policy jot and programmatic tittle of Internet policy this is obvious. For the rest of us, understand that it is the Obama administration’s intention to transform the Internet inside the United States (with major and likely deleterious effects on price, content and innovation to follow), while removing the last vestige of U.S. control over its global governance.
[See: Editorial Cartoons on Barack Obama ]
In order to achieve the former, the president has put considerable pressure on the Federal Communications Commission to declare the Internet a public utility, which would subject it to government regulation like certain parts of the telephone network and cable television. The FCC is formally an independent agency but the president appoints its members (subject to the U.S. Senate’s advice and consent) and designates the chairman; it would only really be news if a majority of them didn’t say “how high?” when he instructed them to jump.
Obama wants to inflict a policy on the Internet called “net neutrality.” Both the federal courts and the House have thus far said "no" to his past efforts to do so; the only option now left is to have the net declared a public utility so the FCC can then vote to impose net neutrality upon it.
[READ: A Net Loss for America]
They’ve got a 300-plus page plan to do it – which is supposed to be rolled out sometime next week. Like Obamacare, the commission will apparently have to vote to approve it before any of the rest of us can know what is in it. But, if you want a glimpse of what the “new” Internet will be like, a tweet coming mid-Wednesday from Matthew Berry, the chief of staff to FCC Commissioner Ajit Pai, might be a clue:
FCC leadership now trying to block Commissioner Pai's press releases from FCC website. So much for Open Internet!
As you’ve probably guessed, Pai is a Republican appointee to the FCC and an opponent of both net neutrality and designating the Internet as a public utility. He’s carrying a brave, sometimes lonely fight – that does have the support of a number of public policy organizations and tens (if not hundreds) of thousands of people who use the Internet – inside the commission to stop the policy from going ahead.
The idea that the people in charge at the FCC – and one wonders who might have more authority over there than an actual member of the commission – are trying to keep Pai’s press releases off the official website is a real big clue to what things might be like under the new regime. Content controls, access fees, usage taxes and the heavy cyber-hand of government regulating how fast things move in cyberspace may be just the beginning. Commissioner Pai is right on the merits of the issue and he’s right to sound the alarm. Too bad his own independent agency is trying to muffle it. Wonder if the White House asked for that too?

