http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2015/02/05/ted-cruz-is-right-block-loretta-lynchs-attorney-general-confirmation
Block Loretta Lynch's Confirmation
Texas Republican Sen. Ted Cruz is urging his colleagues to join with him in an effort to block the nomination of Loretta Lynch to be the next attorney general of the United States.
He’s right, but most of his Republican brethren are unwilling to go along with him. Leaving aside the reputation the junior senator from the Lone Star State is developing for being one to march to a different drummer, the fact is that Lynch's testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee did little to convince anyone that she is the right person to clean up the mess inside the U.S. Department of Justice.
“Several Republicans have expressed opposition to Lynch based on her view that the immigration policies Obama issued last fall were legal and constitutional,” Politico reported Wednesday. “Among the Senate Republicans set to oppose her are Cruz, (Texas Sen. John) Cornyn, Jeff Sessions of Alabama, David Vitter of Louisiana and Mike Lee of Utah. Still, Lynch should have enough votes to clear the committee” which is not expected to vote on the nomination until mid-February.
[GALLERY: Barack Obama Cartoons]
The committee will likely send Lynch’s name to the floor with a recommendation that the Senate favorably advise and consent to her nomination and confirm her. This would be a mistake, not because it would give the appearance a majority of the chamber also assents to President Barack Obama’s plan for executive amnesty and other thorny issues as some, including Cruz, have suggested. It would be a mistake because it would send a message to federal prosecutors that their current misconduct will not come under legislative review any time soon.
In the hearing, Utah Republican Sen. Orrin Hatch recommended that Lynch read "Licensed to Lie" by Sidney Powell, a former assistant United States attorney that documents in some detail the routine abuse of power in which U.S. attorneys at trial and departmental officials engage.
These abuses include, perhaps most seriously, the withholding of evidence in the government’s possession that could lead a judge or jury to conclude the accused is innocent of the crime with which they are charged. It also includes but is not limited to writing indictments that include no underlying criminal charge, the intimidation of potential witnesses, and interfering with the right of the accused to counsel. None of the attorneys involved in the cases highlighted by Powell in her book were sanctioned; many went on to lucrative careers in the private sector before, on occasion, returning to government work at the department or other federal law enforcement agencies.
The senators on the committee should have raised these issues with Lynch, and raised them in detail. After all, it was not long ago that the department railroaded one of their own, former Alaska Republican Ted Stevens, into a conviction and out of the Senate. Apparently many missed the point that what was done to Stevens could easily be done to any one of them as well.
[SEE: Political Cartoons on Democrats]
Stevens was eventually exonerated and the indictment against him dismissed – thanks to the bravery of a few attorneys like Williams and Connolly’s Brendan Sullivan and Rob Cary (who later wrote "Not Guilty," the definitive book about the Stevens’ case) and federal judge Emmet Sullivan, who was so alarmed by what he heard during the case that he took the extraordinary step of ordering an independent investigation into the DOJ’s conduct.
Amazingly, none of this came up when Lynch was before the committee. Nor is her skirt especially clean; there are serious allegations that prosecutors in her office – the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York – made use of secret dockets, denied the victims of crime the opportunity to pursue restitution as required by federal law, and committed other abuses. No responsible party alleges she instigated the practice, but there has been a lot of evidence uncovered that suggests strongly she was part of the continuing effort to cover it all up.
A chief federal prosecutor who is complicit in the cover up of misdeeds inside her own office, no matter on whose watch they were committed, is not the person to put an end to the problems inside the Justice Department, to oversee an investigation into the abuses that have occurred under both Democrat and Republican presidents, and to lead the campaign to clean it all up and make sure it doesn’t happen again.
Don’t be fooled. No less than our continued individual liberty and collective rights under law are at stake. This is a discussion the Senate should have, in the open. And until it does, the Lynch nomination should be blocked from moving forward.
