http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2014/12/02/ferguson-protesters-blocking-highways-are-lawbreakers
Taze, Remove, Repeat
In "Rules for Radicals," community agitator Saul Alinsky famously observed that those who are not part of the solution are part of the problem.
To him this justified the inconveniences people not directly involved in the protests he advocated would experience should these result, for example, in restrooms being shut down at crowded airports. Because the great mass of people failed to join these rallies against injustice, they were, by keeping quiet, in silent collusion with the oppressive power structure he sought to overthrow.
It was bad advice. Back in the late 1960s what President Richard Nixon called “the silent majority” were clearly put off by anti-war demonstrations and other acts of what the left thought of as “civil disobedience.” Rather than win recruits to their cause, the demonstrators not only turned them off but turned the public against them. It’s one of the things that made Nixon’s “law and order” platform so appealing to the voters.
[SEE: Political Cartoons on the Republican Party]
In the wake of a grand jury’s decision not to indict former Ferguson, Missouri, police officer Darren Wilson over the shooting death of Michael Brown, the left is once again employing similar tactics to draw attention to what they believe is the ongoing persecution of young black men by the nation’s police. They are marching, holding “die-ins” at mall food courts, blocking sidewalks, and doing other things that are forcing the media to focus on their issue.
When it’s a question of peaceful protest, no matter how much it may interfere with our getting on with our own business I tend to side with the demonstrators. They’re not hurting anyone, they’re not putting themselves in any great danger, and it is probably better to let them blow off steam. The one thing I cannot endorse however – and neither should anyone else – is the practice of blocking roads and major highways in order to draw attention to what they see as a grievous national issue.
It’s not just happening in Missouri; it’s happening all over – even in Washington, where, over the weekend demonstrators formed a picket line across Interstate 395, a major thoroughfare along the southern part of the city where vehicles frequently exceed the posted speed limit.
[READ: 5 Things Civil Rights Groups Want From Ferguson]
“Protesters holding hands and linking arms stretched across the Southeast-Southwest Freeway near the Third Street Tunnel on Sunday, halting traffic in both directions. The busy artery was backed up for miles from the Pentagon to the Washington Navy Yard. Police officials in D.C. made eight arrests at the protest,” radio station WAMU 88.5 FM reported in website post.
This is the kind of nonsense, to put it bluntly, that can get innocent people killed and should not be tolerated.
Imagine a family travelling in a minivan, killed because the momentarily distracted driver plowed into the back of a semi at a high rate of speed and did not see that traffic had suddenly and inexplicably come to a complete stop because demonstrators closed the road. It will be little comfort to their survivors that they died in furtherance of the cause of social justice.
[READ: Ferguson Protests Snarl Streets Across the Country]
The demonstrators no doubt want to provoke a confrontation with the police. Such a thing would create headlines, bringing more attention to their cause. It’s a risk worth taking when innocent bystanders are so endangered by their lawlessness. The police should give them one warning to clear the road, and, if they don’t move, tase them. After they are incapacitated, officers should carry them off the blacktop and place them under arrest.
Some might call this an over-the-top way of dealing with a temporary problem but it is, in fact, a measured response. As a friend of mine put it to me when discussing the issue, “One's 'right' to protest ends when you interfere with others' freedom of movement. Blocking my legitimate movement is a battery under all state laws. Our culture has become excessively deferential to violating the rights of others.”
Indeed those who choose to block highways and major thoroughfares to draw attention to their cause are taking a great risk, something it is not the job of public safety officials to minimize. They are supposed to protect us from the lawbreakers, not the other way around.
