http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2014/10/29/dont-bring-non-us-citizens-to-america-for-ebola-treatment
Your Tired and Poor, But Not Your Ebola
With just days to go before the end of the month, President Barack Obama’s “October Surprise” has finally come to light. According to the Washington Times, the State Department has what had been a secret plan to bring foreign Ebola-infected health care workers back to the United States for treatment.
“The only way to get other countries to send medical teams to West Africa is to promise that the U.S. will be the world’s medical backstop,” the paper quoted from what it called an “internal department document.”
[SEE: Editorial Cartoons on the Ebola Outbreak]
“Some countries 'are implicitly or explicitly waiting for medevac assurances’ before they will agree to send their own medical teams to join U.S. and U.N. aid workers on the ground,” the paper quoted the undated four-page memo as saying.
The memo, which the Washington Times says was authored by Robert Sorenson, deputy director of the Office of International Health and Biodefense at the State Department, also says, “The United States needs to show leadership and act as we are asking others to act by admitting certain non-citizens into the country for medical treatment for Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) during the Ebola crisis.”
[READ: Should Returning Ebola Health Care Workers Be Quarantined?]
After the story broke, the Obama administration began to walk it back. An unnamed department official is now saying non-U.S. citizens would not be included among those admitted to the United States for treatment. Even if this is to be believed, the president’s commitment to send U.S. medical workers and military personal to infected regions in West Africa leaves little doubt that the number of people infected with Ebola who will eventually be in the United States is almost certain to grow.
Smart politicians of both parties would do well to stand up now and oppose what amounts to an almost criminal neglect for the public’s safety.
[READ: Follow the Money]
America is the world’s most charitable nation. We donate more, give more blood and generally respond to world crises at a level that few nations even come close to matching. This does not mean, however, that it makes sense to import back to this country carriers of a fatal disease that could potentially, in the worst case scenario, lead to a pandemic. Georgia Gov. Nathan Deal, who is in a tight race for re-election, would do everyone a valuable service if he announced he will not allow the Obama administration to bring large numbers of the Ebola-infected into his state – which happens to be the home of the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control.
Not only would this be a popular position with the voters, it would be the right thing to do. Since even the best medical experts are still not sure exactly what we are dealing with, prudence demands the U.S. government not invite a plague into the country along with the tired, the poor and the “huddled masses yearning to breathe free.” Once it gets loose, there is no going back.
