http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604258/s/22e0c2b5/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Colympics0Cparalympic0Esport0C950A72570CParalympics0E20A120Esitting0Evolleyballer0EMartine0EWright0Ewill0Erealise0Eher0EGames0Edream0Eafter0Esurviving0ELondon0Ebombings0Bhtml/story01.htm
Paralympics 2012: sitting volleyballer Martine Wright will realise her Games dream after surviving London bombings
By Gareth A Davies
6:00AM BST 30 Aug 2012
Comments
“I danced a jig,” she said. “I was born within the sound of Bow Bells, so it meant so much to me. I went home with an extra spring in my step.”
The following morning, running 20 minutes late, she decided to take an alternative route from her home in Stroud Green to her office in St Katharine Docks. Instead of taking her usual overground train, she jumped on the Circle Line. Sitting about six feet away from her was Shehzad Tanweer.
Between Liverpool Street and Aldgate, at 8.50am, Tanweer detonated a peroxide-based explosive device. The bomb killed seven people, including Tanweer; 45 more died in London that day as a result of other terrorist atrocities.
Martine was thrown to the floor and trapped in the mangled metal of the exploded carriage. She was the last person to be evacuated, cut out of the side of the carriage, the metal having sliced through her legs.
Doctors later told her that she had lost 75 per cent of the blood in her body and if it had not been for another passenger, an off-duty police officer Elizabeth Kenworthy who helped tie a makeshift tourniquet around one of Martine’s legs, she would not have survived.
GB announce sitting volleyball squads
My crash course in blind football
Paralympic ceremony theme welcomed by scientists
Paralympics 2012: athletes take to stage as party starts with a bang
Paralympics 2012: all the build up ahead of tonight's show
This is it. And I can't wait to start
Instead, she was taken to Whitechapel Hospital, where both legs were amputated above the knee.
For most, the trauma would have been crushing but nothing about Wright is ordinary. Instead of retreating into herself, she quit her job and decided to embark on a whole new life.
She learnt to fly light aircraft in six weeks courtesy of the Douglas Bader Foundation; she married her photographer boyfriend, fell pregnant, had a son, Oscar; and then, perhaps most unexpected of all, determined that she would compete for Great Britain at the Paralympic Games in 2012.
“I’d watched the Paralympians in Beijing, and thought 'yep, that’s what I want – I want to compete in London,” she recalled. “It also just so happened that the sitting volleyball team did their training in the next building in St Mary’s Teddington, where I was doing my rehab.
“Things seemed to be adding up. I took the plunge, started playing sitting volleyball and I loved it straightaway. I loved the sport and I loved the camaraderie, and the characters there.
“We’ve all got different stories, different histories, but we are united by what life has dealt us.”
She was never sure she would be selected for the British squad, and training required enormous sacrifices.
Physically, she pushed herself to the limit in conditioning and training. She juggled her new sporting pursuit with child minding for Oscar. But as with everything else in Martine’s life, she found a way to cope and achieved ParalympicsGB selection on the sitting volleyball team.

Inspirational: Martine Wright (N o7) is preparing to make her Paralympics debut. Picture PA
“At the time, I just felt like it had been the longest job interview I’ve ever been on,” she reflected. “I didn’t think about the possibility of failing a lot, but every time I did think about it I just couldn’t get my head around it. I just didn’t know how I was going to handle it if the answer was 'no’.
“I think in that situation if you start thinking negatively about it, it does affect your performance. So I just concentrated on what I could control and that was my technical skills, my physical conditioning and my psychological mental state of mind.
“I’m feeling absolutely elated, but there is a lot of relief there – relief that I’ve made it. I feel so proud. My family are so patriotic, I am as well so to be able to be part of the Paralympics and represent my country in the sport I love is just amazing.”
When we spoke last, she was outside City Hall where she used to work before 7/7 and the day her life changed forever. “It’s one of those things – I believe this is a journey I was always meant to make,” she insisted.
“Look, I’m talking to you now outside City Hall, looking at where I used to work and where I was travelling to that morning when I was caught up in the terrorist attack. It’s just madness. But you can’t let those things affect you.
“My job here is to be part of the ParalympicsGB team. I think if people can share my story and understand it – because so many people will always remember that and were affected by it in one way or another — and if a few people out there look at my story and see that good can actually come out of bad, then I’m happy with that.
“You might go through the worst thing that you can ever imagine in your life but you can turn things around.
"I think this is what the Paralympic Games is all about - showing people out there that, whether you’re disabled or not, anything is possible.”
