http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604258/s/21e9bb58/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Colympics0Cvolleyball0C9442830A0CLondon0E20A120EOlympics0EGreat0EBritain0Eface0Euphill0Estruggle0Eto0Emake0Equarter0Efinals0Eafter0Elatest0Evolleyball0Edefeat0Bhtml/story01.htm
London 2012 Olympics: Great Britain face uphill struggle to make quarter-finals after latest volleyball defeat
By Telegraph Sport
10:58PM BST 31 Jul 2012
Comments
Harry Brokking's side were blown away by Australia at Earls Court – the Volleyroos too big and too strong for the host nation in a match that promised much but lasted little over an hour.
With the women having beaten Algeria in thrilling circumstances to secure an odds-defying success on Monday, hopes were high that the men would follow suit. It would be a case of after the Lord Mayor's show, though.
All too often GB lost their way at the net, often failing to find their spikers and, when they did, not being able to get beyond the mountainous Thomas Edgar.
The 6ft 11in Queenslander was practically unpassable at the net and, at the end of their 3-0 defeat, Britain were left to face up to needing to win at least two of their last three group games in order to achieve their pre-tournament target.
It is almost certain that will not happen and when assessing the loss, coach Brokking laid it out simply. As a team, his players have not played enough top-quality opponents.
Fans give Earl's Court old roof a workout
GB women's volleyball team lose on debut
China and South Korea under investigation
Ye hits out after second gold
Jamieson breaks British record
"You have to do something 100 times before you can handle it, and we cannot handle the pressure," he said.
"We were focusing on the first two matches and hoping to get results. Today, they put us under pressure with their jump serves. We couldn't handle it and we couldn't get our rhythm. We fight, but we don't have the experience to fight. That's difficult."
The British Volleyball Federation receive little funding for the men's programme and have confessed to not being able to lay on a competitive pre-Olympics schedule.
"It was always a stretch to qualify and now we now play three (Poland) and four (Italy) in the world and we can do nothing but enjoy it and try to play our own game," Brokking added.
He tried his best to change the momentum, taking off captain Ben Pipes early on and trying the experience of Jason Haldane and Andy Pink, but there was little they could do.
"We fought hard but Australia showed a lot of strength, a lot of quality and we couldn't match it today," said Pipes.
"I think it was in there in moments, but it was just coming and going. The Aussies were putting us under that much pressure that it's easy to lose your own game. That was an influence.
"They are big, big guys and if you play the wrong kind of game, it's lights out. Their serve was strong and they had good discipline."
Italy are Britain's next opponents on Thursday, with little more than pride to play for but Pipes is refusing to be too downbeat.
"We go into every game with a thought and a dream of a chance, but you have to play a perfect game and we haven't done yet," he said.
"We keep going, looking for things to work on. We must keep growing and keep evolving."
