http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/571023/s/42b60c15/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ctennis0Caustralianopen0C1136950A30CSerena0EWilliams0Estill0Ethe0Ewoman0Eto0Ebeat0Eat0Ethe0EAustralian0EOpen0Eas0Eshe0Egoes0Ethrough0Ethe0Egears0Bhtml/story01.htm
Serena Williams still the woman to beat at the Australian Open as she goes through the gears
By Jonathan Liew, Melbourne
12:15PM GMT 26 Jan 2015
Comments
The night she won the US Open in New York last September, Serena Williams went out on the town. She gathered up an entourage of about 30 people, including her best friend Caroline Wozniacki and a pop star called Joe Jonas, and trooped down to a fashionable Upper East Side spot called Tao. According to the New York Post, the gang danced until 3am, sinking glasses of champagne and shots of vodka, taking numerous selfies.
They stayed out so late, in fact, that Williams was forced to pull out of an early-morning appearance on ‘Good Morning America’ the next day because she was still sleeping off the after-effects. The only reason for bringing this up is that when Williams describes the latter stages of a Grand Slam as “party time”, she knows exactly what she is talking about.
So here we are again, and here she is again: her 39th Grand Slam quarter-final, in her 20th year as a professional. Of the last 14 calendar years, she has won a Grand Slam in 13 of them. Like a speeding golf ball on ice, you know that it all has to stop eventually; you just struggle to envisage how it might happen. Time, tiredness, trauma, tragedy: Williams has ridden it all.
She is 33, and has been suffering from a cold for the last couple of days. Her opponent on Monday at the Australian Open, Garbiñe Muguruza of Spain, is 21. Along with the likes of Madison Keys, Genie Bouchard and Belinda Bencic, Muguruza represents the changing guard of women’s tennis. Last year, at Roland Garros, she inflicted Williams’s heaviest ever defeat in a major. She knew how to do this.
The problem was, Serena knew too. And more to the point, she knew better. The score was 2-6, 6-3, 6-2. The score was also largely irrelevant. When Williams needs to, she moves up a gear.
Why mercurial Kyrgios is the Pietersen of tennis
Murray hints he may sport a kilt with no underwear on his wedding day
Watch Murray beat Dimitrov
Murray tipped as favourite
“I’ve been playing for a long time,” she said. “When I have to go up a level, I have to. I can’t afford to stay at the same level or I will be where I was at the French Open.”
Muguruza is a better player than when she beat Williams last year. Unlike most Spaniards she is more comfortable on hard courts than clay, a big server who defies a slightly ungainly action to generate considerable power, a clean baseline hitter who generates clean winners. There are great things expected of her, and she shows every sign of achieving them. You do not win a set against Williams 6-2 – which she has now done three times – without having a little something about you.
But when Williams decides to go on the charge, you can almost hear her rumbling like a machine. She stopped berating himself between points, stopped looking up at her players’ box. Although she won the second set comfortably enough, the real pivot of the match came immediately afterwards, during the first two games of the deciding set: two games that lasted 25 minutes and produced some of the finest tennis of this year’s women’s tournament.
It was like watching two wrestlers on a tightrope. First Muguruza saved three break points, Williams’s forehand going temporarily awry. Then, with Williams serving at 15-40, Muguruza pinned Williams into her backhand corner and moved in for the kill, only to plant her forehand volley well long. Five more break points came and went. Muguruza’s last chance went with them.
So Williams staved off another challenge from the new young vanguard. But they will keep coming. Afterwards, Muguruza struck a defiant tone. “Now is like a change in the generation,” she said. “You just have to look at the draw and see Madison, Genie, me and other young girls in the third and fourth round. It’s time for a change.”
Trouble is, Williams is not really in the mood for a change just yet. “When you win often,” she explained, “sometimes people want other people to win. They forget that you want to keep winning, too. And that’s okay. You know, I’m used to it.”
The interviewer at courtside asked her about Dominika Cibulkova, her next opponent. “I don’t even care!” she replied. “I just got to the quarter-finals!” Which is pretty wonderful, when you think about it: the words of an athlete who sees neither past nor future, a woman having far too much fun to think about stopping.
This is still Serena Williams’s party. And she shows no signs of wanting to leave it yet.
