World Cup in Russia will end crisis in Crimea, says Sepp Blatter, as Fifa president blasts 'interference' of politicians
By Ben Rumsby, in Zurich
9:06PM GMT 20 Mar 2015
Comments
Sepp Blatter has delivered an astonishing rebuke to those calling for a boycott of the next World Cup, claiming the tournament could end the crisis in Crimea.
Blatter, the Fifa president, lashed out at “direct interference” of politicians in football after the president of Ukraine called for his country’s allies to consider refusing to play at Russia 2018 if Vladimir Putin does not pull his troops out of the disputed territory.
Blatter briefly cast doubt on Russia staging the tournament after Fifa announced a record £1 billion in cash reserves he suggested were necessary in case the World Cup did not take place.
But the Swiss then immediately ruled out any prospect of that happening, saying: “The World Cup will take place in Russia in 2018. That’s sure.”
Blatter did not mention Ukrainian leader Petro Poroshenko by name but admonished “European” power-brokers over their boycott calls, insisting such action had “never brought any solutions”.
Ukrainian leader Petro Poroshenko has called for a boycott
And in an extraordinary sermon even by his standards, the 79-year-old added: “In my opinion, the World Cup in Russia will be able to stabilise all the situation.
“I’m looking on the geopolitical map today and I am looking towards Afghanistan, I’m looking towards Iraq, towards Lebanon, towards Syria, towards Palestine. In all these countries where there have been or still are belligerent activities, football is played. Football is respected because football is giving emotion to these populations, football is connecting people. And this will be the same at the level of the World Cup.”
Blatter’s comments were immediately condemned by the former Cabinet minister Peter Hain, who helped organise sporting boycotts of South Africa during Apartheid.

They were part of a wider attack on what the Fifa president claimed was growing political interference in sport. “The message is, ‘Leave sports alone’,” Blatter said.
Little in sport has prompted more political outrage than Fifa’s decision to award the 2022 World Cup to Qatar, the date of which was finally confirmed on Thursday, more than four years on.
The switch to November-December has caused massive disruption but Blatter sidestepped questions about whether he should apologise on behalf of Fifa, despite previously insisting the tournament would played in the summer.
Blatter insists the World Cup can be a force for good in Crimea
“The Fifa executive committee can change the venue of the World Cup, can take away the right to organise the World Cup,” he said. “Everything, we can do. So we can also say we play in winter.”
The move arguably contributed to Fifa having to pay the European Club Association $209 million (£140 million) for the release of players at both of the next two World Cups, a threefold increase on last year’s event in Brazil. But that and any potential loss of revenue from broadcasters paled in comparison to the 50 per cent surge in revenue it enjoyed last year, from $1.4 billion (£928 million) to $2.1 billion (£1.4 billion).
Its Financial Report also revealed it paid its 474 employees $88.6 million (£59.3 million) in 2014 at an average of more than £125,000 each. Blatter’s salary was not specified but analysts estimated it at £4 million-£10 million. That will no doubt rise if, as expected, he is re-elected for a controversial fifth term as president in May.
He is the only candidate yet to publish a manifesto and asked when he planned to do so, he said: “My manifesto is the work I have done in the last years in Fifa. I’m now 40 years in Fifa and I am 17 years the president of Fifa.”
Staying in power would also give him a say over who stages the 2026 World Cup after Fifa confirmed it would decide the hosts in 2017 – two years earlier than usual.
Luis Figo is standing against Blatter in the next Fifa presidential election
The United States, beaten by Qatar to the 2022 tournament, is the overwhelming favourite and is thought to enjoy Blatter’s support.
In a nod to the chaotic bidding process for the last two World Cups, Fifa secretary general Jérôme Valcke joked: “The World Cup 2026 will be played in 2026 and, based on what we think, should be played in June-July 2026.”
A US tournament would be a welcome relief to Fifa after the flak it has taken over Russia and Qatar, the latter of which is still plagued by migrant worker deaths.
Blatter said progress was being made on that front, echoing the secretary general of Qatar 2022 Supreme Committee, Hassan Al Thawadi, who said: “Progress has to be made. It’s as simple as that.”

