http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/665678/s/437cc93e/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cworld0Ecup0C11418490A0CUkraine0Ecrisis0EFifa0Ein0Euncomfortable0Eposition0Eover0E20A180ERussia0EWorld0ECup0Bhtml/story01.htm
Ukraine crisis: Fifa in uncomfortable position over 2018 Russia World Cup
By Paul Hayward, Chief Sports Writer
5:02PM GMT 17 Feb 2015
Comments
The Kremlin loves a diversion, so nothing could please Russia more than the global howling about heat and corruption in Qatar. But forget 2022 for now. The way global politics are lurching back towards Cold War, the Russia World Cup of 2018 could make the one that follows it look like an oasis.
According to Russia’s sports minister, Vitaly Mutko, “everything is going according to plan” for 2018, which will be news to the heads of state who brokered the latest doomed ceasefire in eastern Ukraine. According to just about every foreign affairs analyst, the conflict in Donetsk and other Ukrainian towns is the polar opposite of a private skirmish. It marks the likely start of another highly dangerous period of instability between Russia and the Nato countries.
To pick just one expert, the distinctly non-hawkish Timothy Garton Ash writes: “Preoccupied by Greece and the eurozone, Europe is letting another Bosnia happen in its own front yard. Wake up, Europe. If we have learned anything from our own history, Putin must be stopped. But how?”
Wherever you stand on international relations, and the West’s tendency to invade countries while denying that right to others, the political reality is that Russia is careering towards isolation and probably pariah status – which, in the narrow footballing context, is bound to cast doubt on the viability of a World Cup that will serve president Vladimir Putin and his oligarchical cronies. If in doubt, consider the Sochi Winter Olympics – largely a raid on the public purse.
Already we are in the highly anomalous position of sending a World Cup to a country that is helping to destroy a European Championship host. Thus the 2018 World Cup is effectively at war with Euro 2012. An even bigger flashing red light is that America – the coming force in world football – has just passed the ‘Ukraine Freedom Support Act’ in Congress, which permits the supply of military equipment to the beleaguered government in Kiev. If – or when – that kicks in, the US will be at war with Russia by proxy.
Three key sponsors sever ties with Fifa
Fifa admits it faces sponsorship 'challenge'
Fifa rejects Garcia appeal over corruption report
Fifa to decide whether to reveal corruption findings
Britain, too, now has a policy of providing “non-lethal assistance” to the Ukrainian authorities, which, if you will forgive a moment of levity, places a former England manager, Fabio Capello, in the opposite camp to Roy Hodgson and the Football Association.
To recap, the crisis ignited in November 2013, a little over a year after the Euro 2012 final in Kiev, when the pro-Moscow President Viktor Yanukovych abandoned a deal with the European Union in favour of a renewed alliance with Russia. The Kremlin’s view was that the subsequent anti-Moscow uprising brought Nato and the West to Russia’s borders.
The academic and author Anne Applebaum writes in the Washington Post: “Before last year, eastern Ukraine had no history of ethnic conflict. Well-armed ‘separatists’ emerged on the scene only when Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered them there. The ‘civil war’ that ensued is an artificial conflict, run by Russian security and enhanced by a sophisticated pan‑European disinformation campaign. It will last as long as the Russians want it to last.
“For Russia, the point of the war is not to achieve a victory. The point is to prevent the emergence of anything resembling a prosperous, European Ukraine because such a state would pose an ideological threat to Putinism.”
Talk of “demilitarised zones” and western Ukraine resembling West Germany during the first Cold War ought to tell us how serious this is. And the next theatre of conflict, many analysts think, could be the Baltic states.
So nobody could look at 2018 and imagine all conflicts resolved, Putinism tamed or Ukraine still intact. Yet the next World Cup is already looming. As Fifa tell us, without irony: “The eyes of the footballing world will be on St Petersburg on Saturday 25 July when the 2018 Fifa World Cup Russia preliminary draw takes place. From Afghanistan to Zimbabwe, a total of 208 nations have signed up to participate in the campaign.”
The 2017 Confederations Cup is intended to test Russian’s readiness. By then, Ukraine could be partitioned, and other former Soviet states could be feeling the heat. The ace in Qatar’s pack, of course, is that Western governments are loathe to turn away Qatari sovereign “investments”. Hence the lack of political pressure on Fifa to reopen the bidding for 2022.
Russia is a more complex case. As Applebaum notes: “We could enforce our own laws and stop turning a blind eye to Russian money laundering, most of which takes place in European capitals. The city of London and the gnomes of Zurich might pay a price for the loss of Russian clients. But that price will still be far lower than the potential costs of doing nothing. We don’t want a new Cold War – but even that would be preferable to a new world war. And if we don’t come up with a serious strategy to prevent one, that’s what we’ll get.”
Corruption in the 2018 and 2022 bid processes pales by comparison with this greater political context. Fifa’s in-house self-investigation found that Russia’s bid computers were mysteriously “destroyed” by their owners, from whom they were leased. This is chicken feed compared to the destruction of Donetsk.
Inevitable talk of boycotts would revive memories of the 1980 Moscow Olympics and the Soviet retaliation in Los Angeles four years later. We were fooling ourselves if we thought that period in history had passed. Putin knows the West will use the World Cup as leverage. 2018 could yet end up as the ultimate political football.
