Commonwealth Games day eight: as it happened
By Evan Fanning
11:59PM BST 31 Jul 2014
• Full schedule • Full Usain Bolt "a bit s***" transcription • Welsh competitor "assaulted by Australian rival" • Liew: England gymnasts win clean sweep • Gallery of Commonwealth Games gurners • Full medals' table
What sport would you like to see in the Commonwealth Games? Dodgeball? Conkers? Darts? Send all your thoughts to or

21.30 That's it from me at the end of another enthralling day at the Games. Come back tomorrow for for of the same from 8.30am. Goodnight.
21.15 It's time for the 200m final. This is Warren Weir's to lose ... It's a Jamaica one-two-three but it's not at all what we expected - Rasheed Dwyer wins gold in 20.14!!! Warren Weir is second. Livermore is third. Weir got off to a flyer but Dwyer came into his own off the turn and gained the yards that proved crucial in the end. There was no real response from Weir, while Jason Livermore snuck in for bronze. England's Danny Talbot finished seventh in 20.45.

20.50 Gold for Canada's Meaghan Benfeito in the women's 10m platform. Malaysia's Pandelela Rinong Pamg couldn't match her earlier standards with her final dive and she must settle for silver. Canada's Rose Filion takes bronze with Tonia Couch in a more than respectable fifth place. Victoria Vincent finished in 10th, one place behind Sarah Barrow.

20.46 Here comes the women's 200m final ... Blessing Okagbare claims gold as expected. It looks for a moment as if the 100m champion peaks too soon and is faltering in the final 50m but she gets a second wind and kicks on to take the prize. It's an England two-three behind the Nigerian as Jodie Williams takes silver and Bianca Williams wins bronze, both record personal bests.
20.41 Sarah Barrow rounds off with a 75.20 for a back 2½ somersault with a 1½ twist. Victoria Vincent signs off with a 63 and gives a little wave to the camera as her Games come to an end. She only started on the 10m board a year ago plus she is THIRTEEN so that's a pretty astonishing performance no matter what way you look at it. What were you doing when you were 13? Exactly.
20.37 England's Jazmin Sawyers has taken an amazing and unexpected silver in the long jump.
20.33 After more relentless diving with very little splashing and no top bombing, I repeat no top bombing, England's Tonia Couch has produced her best dive so far. It puts her in the bronze medal position (briefly) but Meaghan Benfeito, Rose Filion and Pandelela Rinong Pamg are having their own personal dive-off at the top of the standings so couch is pushed back to fifth. Vicky Vincent has slipped back to 10th.


20.29 Eilidh Child claims the silver medal! She can't keep up with world No 1 Kaliese Spencer but there is no shame in that. Child was streets clear in second. There's quite a few tears from her and her entourage. I imagine a big part of her feels 'thank God that's over and didn't go badly'. That's what I'd think, but maybe that's why I'm not an elite athlete. Cue: 500 miles.
20.27 Back at Hampden it's Eilidh Child time. She's the poster girl of these Games. Yo may have heard that mentioned once or twice.
20.24 Back in the pool Mlaysia's Pandelela Ringong Pamg is now in the lead with Tonia Couch in secenth, Victoria Vincent back in ninth and Sarah Barrow in tenth.
20.25 South Africa's Cornel Fredericks wins the 400m hurdles. England's Niall Flannery is in the inside lane but very nearly breaks into a medal position but has to serrle for fourth. Jehue Gordon of Trinidad and Tobago is second while Jefferey Gordon of the Bahamas is third. Jamaica's Annsert Whyte got a face full of drenched Glasweigan running track when he crashed into a hurdle on the final turn.
20.17 Another good entry from Victoria Vincent. It has a low degree of difficult so she ends up with a 53. Meanwhile, back at Hampden the men's 400m final is about to start.
20.03 No sing of nerves at all for Vicky Vincent whose back 2½ somersault gets a score of 65. Sarah Barrow, too, looks in decent fettle with a 65.6 for her inward 3½ somersault. Tonia Couch again fails to really meet her best. Just 57.6 for her. But Malaysia's Cheong Jun Hoong means business, landing 9.0s and 10.0s across the board for her second dive.

19.56 Back in the pool we've had the first round of dives and 13-year-old Victoria Vincent is in eighth position with a score of 63.00. Tonia Couch, who is the more realistic medal hopeful here, looked a little edgy in her dive but still managed a 67.20 which leaves her tied for fifth. Sarah barrow is ninth.
Nijel Amos beats David Rudisha in the 800m final (GETTY)
19.51 David Rudisha is beaten in the 800m final! Or more to the point Nijel Amos has won the 800m final! He kicked 30 metres out and blazed past Rudisha, who had no response to the Botswanan. When he was required to find something to deal with the Olympic silver medallist there was nothing there. Whether that's injuries or just loss of form it's hard to know. It doesn't really matter. What an upset! South Africa's Andre Olivier takes bronze.

19.50 Rudisha hits the front early on. The rest better get used to looking at his back, although will his injuries hamper him? He leads at the bell.
19.46 The women's 10m platform final is just underway a full six - six! - minutes late. All that careful planning to come up with a 19:41 start time and now this. There are three English competitors in this - Sarah Barrow, Tonia Couch and 13-year-old Victoria Vincent.
Meanwhile David Rudisha is about to saunter to victory take part in the 800m final.
David Weir celebrates victory
19.40 David Weir wins with ease! Yet another gold medal for the Londoner. It's his first Commonwealth Games medal. It was barely a contest. he was tucked in in third place for the first lap but when he turned on the afterburners there was nobody who could live with him.
19.35 It's time for the Weirwolf. Yep, you guessed it. Former Rangers defender David 'Doddie' Weir is going to come out and do a Michael J Fox in Teenwolf impression.
The other David Weir is also going for gold in the men's T54 1500m final.
19.32 England's Shara Proctor has pulled up as she attempted her first jump in the long jump final and her Games are over. Canada's Christabel Nettey leads after one round with a leap of 6.89m.
19.25 Australia's Angela Ballard wins the gold in the T54 1500m. Jade Jones finishes in third place, putting up a real fight right to the line. If there had been another 20 metres the 18-year-old would have caught Canada's Diane Roy who held on for silver.
19.22 England trio Sophie Tolchard, Ellen Falkner and Sian Honnor have beaten Australia Lynsey Clarke, Karen Murphy and Kelsey Cottrell 22-4 to claim gold in the lawn bowls triples. They (literally) has the Australia's pleading mercy at the end. Lawn bowls being one of the few sports that has a 'mercy rule'. Imagine how much fun it would be if every sport had that.
19.20 India's Vikas Shive Gowda has won gold in the discus. Discuss.
19.17 Here's Gareth A Davies from Glasgow ahead of the women's T54 1500m which is starting any minute now ..
Jade Jones, fastest in the heats, could put herself on the map here, in the women's T54 1500m, with England looking for a gold-silver combination, Shelly Woods 0.06secs slower in the heats.
Then the Weirwolf himself, David Weir, one of the greatest wheelchair racers of all time....in the T54 1500m. The Commonwealth title a new one for Weir, and he's up against arch-rival Kurt Fearnley of Australia.
Conditions are the worst possible for racing. Will come down to tactics, and power at the finish.
Suits Weir and in the women's, Jones.
19.11 Malaysia's Ooi Tze Liang has won gold in the men's 3m springboard, edging out England's Jack Laughter who made a bit of a mess of his penultimate dive and was always up against it from then on. Oliver Dingley claims bronze for England.
Jessica Judd wins her semi final in the Glasgow rain
19.10 Jessica Judd has reached the final of the women's 800m after winning her semi final in what is now a proper downpour, though in Glasgow they may still consider it 'just a wee drizzle'. Here is the full list of competitors for tomorrow's final.

19.03 Keeping up with BBC's incessant switching of their Commonwealth Games coverage between BBC1 and BBC2 could be a Commonwealth event all on its own. I reckon I'd be in with a medal shout at this stage.
18.52 Meanwhile, things are looking good for England in the 3m springboard final.

18.47 Rasheed Dwyer is impressive in the final heat, exploding as he comes off the turn and has such a comfortable lead that he eases up in the final 15m. England's James Ellington trails away on the home straight and finishes fourth.

18.40 Warren Weir comfortably wins the second men's 200m semi final after Fiji's Banuve Tabakaucoro gets disqualified for a false start. The 'one strike and you're out' false start rule always seems severe to me. Give a man a second chance in life. Or at least in a 200m semi final second heat. This Commonwealth wasn't built on a rigid and stern enforcement of the rules which takes precedent all compassion for our fellow man. Oh.

18.32 England's Danny Talbot reaches the 200m final finishing in a dead heat with Jamaica's Jason Livermore. Talbot's dip over the line proves crucial in the tightest of photo finishes.

18.30 Next up is the men's 200m semi finals. Meanwhile, as expected, Oliver Dingley has been hauled in in the men's 3m springboard final. Malaysia's Ahmad Amsyar Asman is in the gold medal position with England's jack laugher currently in bronze.
18.23 England's Bianca Williams storms to victory in the final 200m heat, easing up in the final 30 yards which harms her time (and lane placement in the final) but it was an impressive performance nonetheless. Williams and Blessing Okagbare were by far the most impressive from those heats.
18.17 Here are the results of the second (of three) women's 200m semi final. The top two from each semi go into the final plus the two best runners up who, as it stands, both come from the first semi final (see 18:07 below).

18.13 It's nearly time for the diving.

In fact it is already time for the diving - the men's 3m springboard final is underway and England's Oliver Dingley is on the gold medal position at the moment. There's a long way to go yet, however.
18.07 The women's 200m semi finals have just begun at a rain-sodden Hampden Park. Blessing Okagbare eases to victory in the first semi with England's Jodie Williams storming through to claim second place in an impressive 22.64secs.

18.04 It's a gold medal for Rebecca Downie in the uneven bars. Australia's Larissa Miller claims silver with Ruby Harrold in bronze.
18.00 Only England's Ruby Harrold can deny her compatriot Rebecca Downie a gold medal.
<noframe>Twitter: Ben Bloom - You know when Usain Bolt said "shit". I think these conditions may have been what he was referring to. <a href="http://t.co/y9WmKSkB8m" target="_blank">http://t.co/y9WmKSkB8m</a></noframe>

17.45 The women's uneven bars final is well underway. Wales's Elizabeth Beddoe was up first registering a score of 11.633. England's Rebecca Downie was up next, moving into the gold medal position with 14.666. Australia's Larissa Miller falls just short of Downie with 14.566.
Deep fried gold medal, anyone? Dan Keatings celebrates pommel horse gold (PA)
17.32 Dan Keatings, Max Whitlock and Louis Smith are presented with their pommel horse medals. Meanwhile, England are about to take on Australia in the women's lawn bowls triples match.
17.23 Amazing to think that this was our new pommel horse overlord Dan Keatings just a few months ago ...

17.16 Dan Keatings wins gold for Scotland on the pommel horse! Max Whitlock is second and Louis Smith claims bronze.
17.15 To my mind that's not as slick as Keatings' routine. He seemed to hesitate on a couple of occasions and his legs clipped the horse on another. He may pip Smith to second but I doubt he'll beat the Scot.
17.10 Singapore's ZJ Gabriel Gan is up next and gets 14.266. Scotland's Dan Purvis is next but falls just outside the medal places with 14.516. here's Max Whitlock. He's the only one who can knock Dan Keatings off his (pommel) horse.
17.04 Here comes Louis Smith. He's promised big things ... He spins round and round like a show-off on a rodeo but when he pops himself in the air for a move I like to call the 'upside down splits' (NB: this is probably not its official title) he fails to get the lift in his left leg and pops off the horse with a smile. Despite that slight error the judges send him into second place.
17.01 England's Liam Pitchford and Tin-Tin Ho are into the table tennis mixed doubles semi final. Meanwhile Dan Keatings has just moved into the gold medal position with a stunning 16.058 on the pommel horse. Over to you Louis Smith and Max Whitlock.
16.55 The men's pommel horse final has just begun. Canada's Anderson Loran is in the lead though he's the first person to go so that doesn't mean much. In fact it means nothing at all.
<noframe>Twitter: David Millar - That was bloody amazing. Felt like a TdF stage, only better as everybody was Scottish. Well done <a href="http://www.twitter.com/alexdowsett" target="_blank">@alexdowsett</a> that was a phenomenal ride.</noframe>
16.45 Gareth A Davies sends word from the field of a t'riffic sounding new Commonwealth Games book ...
Brian Oliver's book The Commonwealth Games: Extraordinary Stories Behind The Medals is typically brilliant by the once Telegraph Sports News Editor and Sports Editor of The Observer. Brian is working as Venue Media Manager at the weightlifting here, as he was at London 2012. He's spent the last couple of years painstakingly researching a rich seam of Commonwealth Games history.
Brian explained a few of them, like Emmanuel Ifeajuna, the first ever black African to win a gold medal, in any sport in any event. He won high jump gold in 1954 and became a national hero in Nigeria, but after staging a coup was arrested for treachery and shot by firing squad.
Or Precious McKenzie, the amazing story of the Queen's favourite strongman.
Or this one... boxer Frankie Lucas, and the 1974 Games.
He came from a line of British middleweight amateur boxing champions. The line of succession went ... Alan Minter (1971) , John Conteh (1970), Frankie Lucas (1972 & 1973).
"Lucas won the twice and the bloke he beat in the final was Carl Speare from Liverpool. But when it came to picking the teams for the Commonwealth Games the selectors didn't pick him because it was alleged he had an attitude problem," Oliver explained. "Which he may well have had, but so wait."
In between times, England selected Speare for the team.
"He fought for the Sir Philip Game club in Croydon which was set up by the commissioner for the Metropolitan police, of the same name. A policeman at the club [Ken Rimington] knew that he'd been born in St Vincent and so the policeman set up the Saint Vincent Boxing Association. He was then eligible to compete in the Commonwealth Games."
"He didn't have any money. He approached Scotland and a bloke called Frank Hendry, who's still alive, said 'We'll pay for you to go to New Zealand. You'll live with us, travel with us, so long as you'll be a sparring partner for all our fighters'.
"He stayed with Scotland, carried the flag for Saint Vincent. The really good team at the time was Zambia. Zambia, for political reasons, were associated with Cuba and the Cubans went and trained in Zambia. So they were really, really good.
"He fought in the semi-finals and he fought the bloke he'd beaten in the ABAs. He beat him, got to the final and then beat a Zambian and won the gold medal. Then he disappeared to Saint Vincent for about three months. He was quoted as saying he went to St Vincent "kicked back a bit and had some herbal relief".
Great stories. Book's full of them. "Rich, varied and as far-reaching as the Commonwealth Games themselves" - says Clare Balding. I'll second that.
Commonwealth Games: The Extraordinary stories behind the Medals is available from Bloomsbury.

16.28 Claudia Fragapane has just had her first attempt at the vault, trying to haul in Canada's Ellie Black. There's a furious amount of twisting and turning, but it knocks her slightly wide of the mark where she would have ideally landed. If she was on a trapeze wire (which I assume is what all this is building towards) she would have fallen. The judges give her a score of 14.766 which is the best of all the first attempts.
Her second attempt is (to my mind) even better in execution, though it may be a slightly easier routine. It would take me about 10 minutes to climb up on a pommel horse so it all looks pretty impressive to me. The power in her arms as she pushes off the vault is incredible.
The judges are taking an age to make up their minds. This wouldn't wash on Strictly. Finally the result comes in. It's a gold medal for Claudia Fragapane!!! The 16-year-old has her third gold of the Games.
<noframe>Twitter: Sadhbh O'Shea - Alex Dowsett says that today he was fuled by disappointment and Nando's <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23Glasgow2014" target="_blank">#Glasgow2014</a></noframe>
15.36 England's Max Whitlock has won his third gold medal of the Games. This time it's in the men's floor where he has beaten Canada's Scott Morgan. Stand aside Louis Smith. Strictly Come Dancing English gymnastics has a new star.

15.28 Full time in the hockey. Look away now if you're a Scotland fan. It's finished: Scotland 0 Australia 5.
15.21 Interesting comments for gold medallist Alex Dowsett: "No one wanted that more than me. I was disappointed not to be picked for the Tour de France. I've spent the past month angry. Ever since I've been a kid I've been able to pull something out of the bag when I'm really, really angry."
Fair enough. Anyway, here are the top 10 in the men's time trial.


15.15 Alex Dowsett wins gold for England!! He beats Rohan Dennis by 9.30 seconds. The Australian must settle for silver. Geraint Thomas takes bronze.
15.12 Australia's Rohan Dennis is now in the gold medal position in the time trial. He's knocked four seconds off Geraint Thomas's lead, finishing in a time of 47:51.08. Only Alex Dowsett can now deny him gold. It's going to be tight.
15.05 Svein Tuft is the new clubhouse leader of the men's time trial. Not for long though. Geraint Thomas has pipped the Canadian. 47:55.82 is the time to beat for Alex Dowsett.
15.00 Scotland's Darren Burnett has beaten Australia's Aron Sheriff in the semi final of the lawn bowls (or curling on grass as it's sometimes never called. He's into the final where he'll face Canada's Ryan 'Simply The' Bester*.
* That may not be his actual nickname. It should be, but it's probably not.
14.47 Alex Dowsett has a seven-second lead at the second time check. It's looking good for the Englishman. David Millar has slipped even further behind - he's back in ninth, a full 50 (fifty) seconds behind Dowsett, whom he beat to gold in Delhi four years ago.

14.43 It's half-time in the men's hockey and the score is: Scotland 0 Australia 3. At least the Scots have a chance for revenge in the lawn bowls where Darren Burnett leads Australia's Aron Sheriff 17-15 after 22 ends. Is there any revenge quite as sweet as lawn bowls revenge? Not in my book.
14.35 Alex Dowsett is fastest through the first time check with a time of 8:05.50 but the real surprise is that David Millar is back in eighth witha time of 8:26.91. That's way off the pace. I don't think Millar will be among the medals tonight.

14.26 Geraint Thomas is the fastest through the first time check, though that is probably to be expected. I imagine the time will be beaten a few times over the next 20 minutres or so. Home hero and reigning champion David Millar is out on the track and he receives a predictably racous reception from the crowd. Millar is the last to go out. I think it's going to be between him and Alex Dowsett to claim gold. You heard ot here first.
14.20 English trio Tonia Couch, Sarah Barrow and Victoria Vincent, who is just 13-years-old, have qualified for the final of the 10m platform. That final will begin at 19.41 later tonight. Not 19.40. Not 19.42. Unless the judges' electronic scoring wands are on the blink again. Otherwise it will be about 23.00.
14.13 Good afternoon good folk of the Commonwealth and beyond. One by one the cyclists are coming off the ramp to clock up some miles on the streets of Glasgow. Geraint Thomas is the latest to hit the streets. Here's a map of the 40km circuit.

13.54 We are just a few minutes away from the second batch of drivers setting off on their way in the Men's Time Trial. Hadi still leads the way, and by some distance.
13.43 More funny names, after Tin-Tin Ho ...
<noframe>Twitter: sportingintelligence - Is there a better name at the Commonwealth Games than Malaysian squash player Valentino Bon Jovi Bong?</noframe>
13.35 In the Men's Time Trial the gents first off are beginning to finish now. Rwanda's cyclist Janvier Hadi leads the way now, by about five minutes (!!), with 54:44.18. There are some riders who have not even set off. Defending champion David Millar will be last to go.
13.28 More on diving: Jack Laugher's hopes of a second Commonwealth Games gold remain on course after the Englishman led the way in qualifying for Thursday evening's 3m springboard final.
The 19-year-old has already topped the podium at the Royal Commonwealth Pool in Edinburgh after triumphing in the 1m springboard category on Wednesday night.
And the former world junior champion easily qualified for Thursday night's final as he finished with a combined score of 465.80 in the preliminary session.
The teenager said:
That is a good score for a prelim and I feel good. Winning the 1m last night was amazing. I have dreamed of winning a major competition like that since I was a kid but only hoped that if I put in a good performance I'd get a medal. But to get gold with a new PB is fantastic. So that has put me in a great place ahead of the 3m final. It's my main event and after winning the prelim I do feel confident. But every competition is different. You can go from being on fire one day to being absolutely rubbish the next. That's sport.
13.24 Some diving info:
<noframe>Twitter: CommonwealthGamesENG - RESULT - DIVING: <a href="http://www.twitter.com/toniacouch" target="_blank">@toniacouch</a> 3rd, <a href="http://www.twitter.com/vickyvincent200" target="_blank">@vickyvincent200</a> 8th and <a href="http://www.twitter.com/SarahBarrow" target="_blank">@SarahBarrow</a> 9th in the women's 10m platform prelims (all qualify) <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23TeamEngland" target="_blank">#TeamEngland</a></noframe>
13.20 It's not been a good day for the Aussies, what with Athletics Australia suspending its British head coach Eric Hollingsworth after his outspoken attack on Olympic sprint hurdles champion Sally Pearson. In fact, it seems their Commonwealth Games crown could be slipping. They have topped the medals standings at every Commonwealth Games since 1990 but slipped to second place behind England on Wednesday, trailing 38-35 in the gold medal count. With the games ending on Sunday, Australia looked unlikely to regain the lead because swimming, where the team won 19 of the total 44 golds, has been completed.
13.13 A bit more news on that arrest of the Australian athlete.
Weightlifter Francois Etoundi, who won the bronze medal in the 77-kilogram (170-pound) division on Sunday, was stripped of his games accreditation after being arrested over an alleged assault during an altercation [believed to be with a Welsh competitor] in the athletes' village.
Commonwealth Games Federation chief executive Mike Hooper described it as a "very serious incident" that was witnessed by many people in the village early Wednesday. The Cameroon-born Etoundi was due in court in Glasgow later Thursday. Hooper added:
I made it clear I didn't want him back in the village when violent behavior is asserted. The games have to be safe and secure. It is a big village like a city that has developed over a very short period of time. People have to respect each other's space and this sort of behavior will not be tolerated.
13.07 Some wrestling news now: Bolton wrestler Louisa Porogovska will fight for a Commonwealth Games bronze medal after losing her 55kgs semi-final to India's Babita Kumari at the SECC.
Scrap: Babita Kumar, right, holds onto Kathryn Marsh in the quarter final (AP)
Porogovska, who had retired from the sport after Delhi Games in 2010 to start a family with husband and coach Anatoliy before returning to competitive action in the run-up to Glasgow, will take on Scotland's Kathryn Marsh this evening.
There are also some other hopes for the Home-Nation wrestlers via the repachage: Londoner Cloe Spiteri was defeated in her 63kgs semi-final, so will contest the bronze medals fight later, along with Wales' Sarah Connolly and Alex Gladkov, son of Scotland's national team coach Volodymyr, in the men's 65kgs.
12.55 In Table Tennis news England's mixed doubles pair, Liam Pitchford and Tin-Tin Ho, took just over 20 minutes to see off their New Zealand rivals to advance. They are through to the quarter finals in three straight games.
Amazingly Tin-Tin is only 15 and her table-obsessed father, Charles, named her after the sport (T.T. geddit?), and even more amusingly she has a brother called Ping (and she was nearly named Pong).
Here she is winning a point:

<noframe>Twitter: Liam Pitchford - Great start to the day, 2 wins and into 2 quarter finals later on today!</noframe>
12.52 Meanwhile Scotland's Katie Archibald walked off the time trial course wondering what might have been after feeling she had more energy to burn. The 20-year-old was third at the first two time checks but eventually finished fifth, 64 seconds slower Villumsen and 16 seconds off claiming her second Commonwealth Games medal. Here's what she said:
I had far too much left at the end. It's a really long finishing straight and I suddenly realised 'good God, look how fast a bike can go'. I enjoyed the section with the lumps and twists, that's what I really love to ride, and I just lost it in those long drags. It's a mental thing, I knew that's what I was going to struggle with. I was tootling along thinking 'try harder man, try harder', and seeing the heart-rate drop. I'm going to have to work on that flat pain. The only thing that was keeping me going on the country lanes was the crowd.
12.44 Nice detail now about the winner of the Women's Time Trial winner, Linda Villumsen: she is the partner of Laura Trott's sister, Emma, who retired after May's Friends Life Women's Tour.

My super star in every way @LVillumsen pic.twitter.com/xCmeVDemRi
12.39 Perhaps unsurprisingly it has not taken long for this Keynan's bike has an issue. Poor Suleiman Kangangi ... This even before the first checkpoint.

12.35 The 40km (well 38.4km if you want to be exact) Men's Time Trial is now underway. It's a Kenyan rider first. Apparently they don't have any mechanics with them, and have to fettle the bikes themselves.
12.18 Some team England updates now:
<noframe>Twitter: CommonwealthGamesENG - RESULT - DIVING: <a href="http://www.twitter.com/JackLaugher" target="_blank">@JackLaugher</a> first, <a href="http://www.twitter.com/JamesRDenny" target="_blank">@JamesRDenny</a> sixth and <a href="http://www.twitter.com/OliverDingley" target="_blank">@OliverDingley</a> eighth in men's 3m springboard prelims (all qualify) <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23TeamEngland" target="_blank">#TeamEngland</a></noframe>
And ...
<noframe>Twitter: CommonwealthGamesENG - RESULT - SQUASH: Peter Barker and <a href="http://www.twitter.com/Aliwat1" target="_blank">@Aliwat1</a> beat Hindle and Sultana of Malta 2-0 (11-2 11-3) in the mixed doubles <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23TeamEngland" target="_blank">#TeamEngland</a></noframe>
12.10 There are some quotes from England hockey captain Barry Middleton now, after his team's earlier 3-1 win over Canada secured their place in the sem-final against reigning champions and best-ranked Australia.
We are very happy with that, we did what we set out to do which was control the game. It felt like it was comfortable the whole way through and we just kept on playing our game. We wanted to put out a performance that took our momentum into the semi-finals. It should be fun [taking on Australia], that's who you want to play in big tournaments. We have set our stall out over the last few years that we want to be in the big games and be in semi-finals. We are consistently making semi-finals with this group of players but we will go out there, give as good as we get, and we have belief in the team that we can beat anyone on our day.
11.58 And, as promised, here is a snap of the Men's Squash Doubles. India are currently trailing Scotland.

11.55 And the medal ceremony for the Women's Time Trial is now taking place. Emma Pooley, who will retire after these Games, accepts her silver medal:

And Linda Villumsen, who was six seconds quicker, looks happy. And why not?!

11.49 Ben Bloom has more on that Usain Bolt selfie story now.
Usain Bolt has been caught up in more controversy at the Commonwealth Games after two Glasgow 2014 security guards were reportedly sacked for taking their photograph with the Jamaican sprinter. Bolt was training at Hampden Park earlier in the week when two security guards approached him and asked for a “selfie”, according to the Evening Standard. The two guards have reportedly been relieved of their duties and the 15,000 Commonwealth Games volunteers, known as Clyde-siders, have been warned to remain professional at all times and not to approach athletes. It is not only volunteers who have been caught up in the mania surrounding Bolt, with a press conference descending into farce last week when an Australian journalist asked for her own photo with the sprinter. “Usain, we’re not here as journalists, we’re here as fans,” she said, before requesting her own “selfie” with Bolt. The Jamaican, who is not competing in the individual events in Glasgow, begins his campaign in the 4x100m relay heats on Friday.
11.44 Oh, the BBC's coverage is a replay of some action slightly earlier, my apologies. This has just dropped on the wires: England skip Paul Brown has managed to keep his nerve to deny Scotland a Commonwealth Games lawn bowls bronze medal in their para-sport Open Pairs play-off at Kelvingrove.
Brown's final bowl of the 15th end earned the two shots required to force an extra end which England who handsomely to claim a 16-12 victory and seal a place on the podium.
The 35-year-old from Bristol praised team-mates Bob Love and David Fisher for bouncing back after their semi-final defeat to South Africa on Wednesday.
Brown said:
It was tough and the conditions didn't really help but it was a new day and we were determined to get on that green and make sure of a medal. It was just a case of sticking with it and we managed to pick up the two and forced the extra end. The team bowled fantastically well in the extra end. As a team we have played well this week and even when we have been down we've fought back.
11.40 Over in the para Lawn Bowls bronze-medal match England are taking on Scotland, and the English have just spoiled the party with a decent shot. It's certainly tense, and I'll do my best to fil you in with the details.

After End 15 it's 12-all.
11.38 There is currently doubles squash being played, which always amazes me: how can you fit so many people in a squash court with the ball fizzing about so quickly at that level and make it entertaining? I'll try and find some pictures for you.
11.35 The Men's Time Trial, by the way, will be starting in about an hour. While we wait for that here is a nice tweet about something that happened yesterday.

Dancing for joy: David Katoatau won Kiribati's first Games medal last night - and gold at that! #2014weightlifting pic.twitter.com/irx9cwKabb
11.29 Here's Emma Pooley after winnning her silver medal in the Time Trial:
It was close, but I am really happy to be on the podium. I don't think I could have done any better. It was really challenging on the corners, and I also fell at one corner earlier on and I was a little more cautious after that. That costs you seconds. It is a little disappointing to be leading when you finish and then beaten by the only person who could possibly do so. I'm really grateful to have my opportunity to have been racing properly for seven or eight years. It's an opportunity that not everyone has, and I'm glad I can finish with a medal. We will see how it goes on Sunday.
The woman who did pip Pooley, Linda Villumsen, had this to say:
Everything worked from start to finish, for once. It's an amazing feeling.
11.21 And the three top Time Trial riders sit in the throne waiting for confirmation of their medals Villumsen takes a call. "I love you too," she rather sheepishly says as the camera zooms in on her, unfairly.

11.18 And here are the final standings:

11.15 And the Danish-born New Zealander has bumped Pooley to second on the podium. What a final last 10km by her! Villumsen won silver four years ago, and certainly saved her best until last there.


11.14 Pooley has finished and only Linda Villumsen can beat her ...

11.12 It would be amazing for the Englishwoman in what will be her last competitive games: her last ever race will be on Sunday in the Road Race. She is closing in on the finish now. She is out of her seat and sprinting. This is the last time we will see her at a major championship, the world champion.
11.06 It's looking good for Emma Pooley, though. This is how it looks with about 10 minutes to go:

11.04 And Joanna Rowsell has finished her race, after gold on the track she has been under-par here. And there are suspicions that she is a little under the weather.

10.55 Amazing scenes in the Time Trial. Just after crossing the second check point Emma Pooley has over taken Aussie Shara Gillow in fifth, and another rider! The Englishwoman has taken 24:06 minutes to cycle 17.1km, and that's 1.30 seconds quicker than rival Linda Villumsen. There are about 15 minutes to go.

10.46 Great breaking story ... Two security guards have apparently been sacked for taking a selfie photograph with Usain Bolt. Well that's a bit s***, isn't it. I recall organisers promoting the Glasgow Games at the 'selfie games' or even the 'Commonwealthie Games'. See this.
And there are plenty of people working at the Games while also taking selfies Commonwealthies, so it seems a little harsh to me that two chaps were marched off the venue for asking the world's fastest ever man for a quick snap. Unprofessional, perhaps, but a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.

#commonwealthie pic.twitter.com/Dpk6SKAt0V
10.41 Good news for Emma Pooley, she is going well in the 30km Time Trial. She has just gone through the 6.4km checkpoint and she is ahead of rival Linda Villumsen, the Danish-born rider competing for New Zealand ... at least we think she is, though there seems to be an issue with her transponder ...

10.27 Jackson has a chance for a hat-trick at the death in the hockey, but his shot from his short corner hits the upright. It's ended England three Canada one.

England had 23 shots and only scored three goals, which is a little disappointing. They will need to be much more clinical against Australia, who battered them at the recent World Cup.

10.24 In the hockey Canada have pulled one back with two minutes of the game to go. It's neatly taken from captain Scott Tupper, and that makes it 3-1 to England.
10.22 Roswell will snake through the rainy streets of Glasgow, and fellow Englishwoman Emma Pooley is also in with a shout for a podium finish.
Later on in the Men's 40km Time Trial we will be seeing Alex Dowsett, Geraint Thomas and David Millar going for gold.
10.19 England's Joanna Roswell has just been sent off on her way in the Women's 30km Time Trial, and she is being tipped for a medal. Here she is:

10.16 Meanwhile it's 3-0 to England in the men's hockey, and they look certain for victory over Canada and a place in the semi-final against Australia, who are intimidating foes: they have won all the golds on offer in the male competition in the Commonwealth Games. Ashely Jackson was the scorer of the third goal, and it was a neat shot from a short corner.

10.14 Talking about shooting off one's mouth, Gareth A Davies has given me a good steer on a story about English shooter Rachel Carrie who had a hotel in Dundee call the police on her, fearing she was going to start some massacre.
The 30-year-old from Leeds spent four hours being quizzed over the firearm, despite producing a shotgun certificate and informing the good policemen that she was part of Glasgow 2014.
I got to the hotel at around 11pm ... first the staff asked me if I had brought a rifle on to the premises. I replied no, it is a shotgun, and tried to explain my role in the Commonwealth Games. But they said it was illegal to have a shotgun in a hotel. It is not illegal to have a shotgun in a hotel. They called the police and I was questioned until 2.30am. I was really embarrassed. I have taken my Perazzi 12-gauge shotgun around the world, I have been to America and to most European countries and this has never happened before.
10.04 Just an update now on s***gate from yesterday. The Times have run the full transcript (on page five of today's paper). It's not very long.
The encounter was reportedly as follows:
Katie Gibbons (KG, Times reporter): Hi Usain, I'm Katie Gibbons, a reporter from The Times. Nice to meet you. Usain Bolt (UB): Hi. KG: How are you? UB: (Shrugs) KG: So are you enjoying the games? Are you having fun? UB: No. KG: Really, why not? UB: I'm just not... it's a bit s***. (Shrugs, looks up to grey sky). KG: What do you mean? UB: I've only been here two days. KG: Is it like the Olympics? UB: Nah. Olympics were better. KG: Really, how? UB: (Shrugs). KG: Where are you off to now? UB: To do some business.
<noframe>Twitter: Gary Lineker - I think what the Times is doing to <a href="http://www.twitter.com/usainbolt" target="_blank">@usainbolt</a> is a bit s**t!</noframe>
Personally, I want audio. It was a bit silly if Bolt did say that, but it was a 10-second exchange and was it on the record?
09.54 An update in the hockey from Rod Gilmour
England men are edging closer to securing a semi-final showdown with world champs Australia. With 30 minutes remaining it's 2-0 to England after a wealth of possession against Canada. Two fine goals as well. One off Ashley Jackson's stick – far from a fluke – before England's playmaker sets up captain Barry Middleton. A chopper lurks over head. An Aussie spy in the camp to work out how to stop a free flowing Jackson?
09.42 At a hastily-arranged press conference Australian Commonwealth Games Association chef de mission Steve Moneghett has just confirmed that Hollingsworth has be excluded from Australia's Games team with immediate effect.
09.30 Just onthe Sally Pearson / golden girl thing, it really is worth watching the YouTube clip of her winning the 110m hurdles two years ago at the Olympics (I can't embed it as that function has annoyingly been disabled, but click here and you will have it).
Golden girl: Sally Pearson (meeting The Queen) is the star of Aussie athletics (PA)
09.15 And there is more bad news for the Aussies (shame!).
A man will appear at Glasgow Sheriff Court today following an alleged assault at the Commonwealth Games athletes' village.
The 29-year-old suspect, reportedly an Australian competitor, was detained by police on Wednesday morning following a disturbance at Dalmarnock site in Glasgow's east end.
The man is said to have assaulted a Welsh athlete and the Sydney Morning Herald on Thursday reported that Team Wales said a member of its team was helping police.
A Team Wales spokesman told the newspaper:
We're aware of an incident that occurred overnight involving a member of Team Wales and we're currently working with Police Scotland to assist them with their inquiries. Whilst the facts around the matter are being established it would be wrong for us to comment any further.
A Police Scotland spokesman added:
A 29-year-old man has been arrested and is presently detained in police custody in connection with an alleged assault following an altercation within the athletes' village in Glasgow on Wednesday.
09.00 Some breaking news first up: Athletics Australia has suspended its British head coach Eric Hollingsworth after his outspoken attack on Olympic sprint hurdles champion Sally Pearson ahead of her Commonwealth Games title defence.
Hollingsworth labelled Pearson a "bad example", highlighting his anger that she did not attend the team's pre-Games training camp.
Man in the middle: Eric Hollingsworth (GETTY)
The 27-year-old athlete has arrived in Glasgow as the undoubted star of the Australia track and field team and looking to retain the 100 metres hurdles title she won in Delhi four years ago.
She was named athletics team captain for the Games, during which reports have emerged about her relationship with Hollingsworth breaking down.
Former decathlete Hollingsworth, who joined Athletics Australia in 2009, said in a statement on Wednesday: "Sally was coming (to the training camp) all along until the last minute when she opted to take a race in London.
"What's lost here is she's the team captain and there's a reasonable expectation she'd be in the camp ahead of something as major as the Commonwealth Games. Her no-show sets a bad example to the entire national team."
Announcing the 51-year-old's suspension in an official statement, Athletics Australia stated the following:
Athletics Australia is bitterly disappointed that Eric Hollingsworth has chosen to make a statement to the media at a time when our focus as a group should be wholly on supporting our athletes' performances. He acted without the authority of Athletics Australia and in contravention of the specific instructions of the chief executive officer. Athletics Australia condemns in the strongest terms his disparaging comments about Sally Pearson and his timing. We have therefore suspended Eric Hollingsworth as an employee of Athletics Australia until such time as the Athletics Australia board can convene to consider the matter. Action in regards to Eric Hollingsworth's role on the Commonwealth Games team will be determined by the Australian Commonwealth Games Association, as the body responsible for the team.
Pearson races in the third and final heat of the 100m hurdles on Thursday evening. The final takes place on Friday night and she is expected to battle for the gold with England's Tiffany Porter.
It seems worthwhile reminding ourselves what the medals' table looks like at this point:
Country Position G S B Total
1 England 38 35 32 105 2 Australia 35 32 39 106 3 Canada 22 7 22 51 4 Scotland 13 12 14 39 5 New Zealand 12 10 14 36
08.45 Good morning Commonwealth Games fans, and welcome to day eight. Here is a quick run-down of the schedule and highlights:
THREE EVENTS NOT TO MISS
1. Athletics – Men's T54 1500m David Weir has won six Paralympic titles, been crowned world champion six times, but never won a Commonwealth gold. The Englishman's main rival will be Kurt Fearnley of Australia.
2. Gymnastics – Men's pommel horse After helping England to all-round team glory, Louis Smith will be hoping to cap off his comeback by regaining the Commonwealth Games pommel horse title he first won at Melbourne in 2006.
Going for (another) gold: Louis Smith in the pommel horse (PA)
3. Athletics – Men's 200m Jamaica will be looking to follow their 100m success with victory over the longer sprint and have a strong hand including Hason Livermore, Rasheed Dwyer and Warren Weir, the world silver medallist.
YOU MIGHT LIKE ... Weightlifting The Commonwealth Games has many activities to thrill the senses: extraordinary speed, magnificent agility, jaw-dropping juxtapositions of intelligence and stamina. Yet for sheer awesome power, look no further than today’s finals of the men’s +105kg weightlifting, where you will see very muscly, very sweaty men – largely bearded – lift extremely heavy things, all while emitting the kinds of sounds which would normally prompt a visit from the local council’s noise-pollution officers. In the absence of the usual dominant eastern European athletes, it is an open field, too.
FULL SCHEDULE FOR THURSDAY JULY 31
ATHLETICS 1800–2245 Semi-finals. Men 200m. Finals. Men Para-sport 1500m T54, 200m, 800m, 400m hurdles, discus throw. Preliminaries. Women 800m round 1, 100m hurdles round 1, pole vault, discus throw. Semi-finals. Women 200m. Finals. Women Para-sport 1500m T54, 200m, 400m hurdles, long jump.
BADMINTON 1300–1700 Preliminaries. Singles and doubles. 1830–2230 Preliminaries. Singles and doubles.
CYCLING 1000 – 1600 Men Individual time trial. Women Individual time trial.
DIVING 1000–1330 Preliminaries. Men 3m springboard. Women 10m platform. 1800–2130 Finals. Men 3m springboard. Finals. Women 10m platform.
GYMNASTICS – ARTISTIC 1500 – 1900 Finals. Men Apparatus finals: Floor, pommel horse, rings. Women Apparatus finals: Vault, uneven bars.
HOCKEY 0900–1230 Preliminaries. Men England v Canada, Malaysia v New Zealand. 1400–1730 Preliminaries. Men Australia v Scotland, South Africa v India. 1900–2300 Women Classification match 9 v 10, Classification match 7 v 8.
LAWN BOWLS 0845–1545 Quarter-finals. Men Singles, fours. Semi-finals. Men Singles. Women Pairs. Semi-finals. Women Pairs, triples. Para-sport open triples B6/B7/B8 gold and bronze medal matches. 1730–2045 Semi-finals. Men Fours. Women Triples gold and bronze medal matches.
NETBALL Classification 2 matches.
SQUASH 1130–1600 Preliminaries. Men Doubles knockout 1-16. Quarter-finals. Women Doubles. 1730–2100 Preliminaries. Men Doubles knockout 1-16. Quarter-finals. Women Doubles. Mixed Doubles pools.
TABLE TENNIS 0930–1430 Preliminaries. Men Singles round 1. Doubles round 3. Women Singles round 3. Doubles rounds 1 and 2. Mixed Doubles round 4. 1600–2130 Preliminaries. Men Singles round 2. Quarter-finals. Men Doubles. Women Singles. Mixed Doubles.
WEIGHTLIFTING 1530–1800 Finals. Men +105kg Group A.
WRESTLING 1000–1230 Preliminaries, Quarter-finals, Semi-finals and Repechage. Men Freestyle 65kg, 86kg. Women Freestyle 55kg, 63kg. 1630–1930 Finals. Men Freestyle 65kg, 86kg. Women Freestyle 55kg, 63kg.

