Surfer braves storms to ride 50-foot waves
By Richard Gray
3:58PM GMT 08 Jan 2014
Comments
Bad weather has brought severe flooding and transport chaos to much of Britain over the past week, but for one man it has meant the thrill of his life.
Andrew Cotton, 34, from Braunton, north Devon, braved the elements to surf in some of the biggest Atlantic swell ever recorded off the coast of Donegal in Ireland.
The plumber-turned-professional surfer was towed out into the churning ocean on Tuesday and rode waves of up to 50 feet.
Huge surf battered the west coast of Britain and Ireland through the day and many areas have been on high alert for flooding.
Mr Cotton, however, has been searching for the biggest waves possible and travelled to Mullaghmore in Donegal to take advantage of the extreme conditions.
Surfer takes on record 100ft wave
Surfer takes on 'biggest wave ever ridden'
Surfer wipeout on Portugal's monster wave
He said: “Bad weather like we have had can bring a lot of flooding and damage, but on the flip side can also bring some really big waves for surfing.
“The storms over the past few weeks have meant that many waves have not been surfable as the wind has been too high.
“We saw the swell would be coming across the Atlantic and decided to head to Mullaghmore.
“The conditions were really good and we got some really big waves. The waves break on a shallow rock ledge so if I fell it could be really dangerous.”
However, the 50 feet waves tackled by Mr Cotton on Tuesday are not the largest he has ever ridden.
In October he surfed a wave that reportedly reached heights of 90 feet off the coast of Portugal during the St Jude storm.
This was briefly thought to be a new world record until a Brazilian surfer Carlos Burle rode what is thought to have been a 100 feet high wave at the same spot.
He has been searching for the biggest waves around the world as part of a series for adventure film channel EPIC TV.
He said that despite the bad weather, the waves off the Irish coast were some of the most thrilling he had encountered.
He added: “Before going out in the water it can be quite frightening but once out there I feel quite relaxed and happy to be out there.
“I try to concentrate on surfing these waves to the best of my ability.”

