http://us.rd.yahoo.com/sports/rss/ncaab/SIG=1372f110r/*http%3A//sports.yahoo.com/news/guard-traevon-jackson-returns-practice-wisconsin-005635173--ncaab.html
Guard Traevon Jackson returns to practice for Wisconsin
MADISON, Wis. (AP) -- Injured Wisconsin point guard Traevon Jackson has returned to practice, though it is still unclear whether the senior will be ready for the start of the NCAA Tournament.
Jackson has been out two months after breaking his right foot in a 67-62 loss on Jan. 11 at Rutgers.
Wisconsin (31-3) had a light practice on Tuesday, when Jackson participated in shootaround and individual drills. The top-seeded Badgers play Coastal Carolina on Friday night in their NCAA opener in Omaha, Nebraska.
Jackson said that he had been cleared, and that it would be up to him about when he feels ready to play. He said he felt about 90 percent.
Associate head coach Greg Gard said the team had to monitor Jackson through the week before determining what to expect.
''The best case scenario, he plays 30 minutes - not going to happen probably though,'' Gard said. ''I think we just have to wait and see where he's at, what he feels like physically.''
Jackson's replacement, Bronson Koenig, missed practice on Tuesday with an apparent minor illness. But the sophomore has played well overall starting for Jackson.
The Badgers are 16-1 since the injury, winning both the Big Ten regular season and tournament titles.
Any contribution from Jackson should lengthen coach Bo Ryan's bench, which has lacked scoring punch at times this year. Ryan also relied on Jackson in tight, late-game situations to take clutch shots.
Another senior guard, Josh Gasser, said he thought Jackson would return for the tournament opener. At the very least, Jackson's return to basketball activities gives Wisconsin an emotional lift.
''It's just a matter of me now. ... Just one day at a time, just how I feel,'' Jackson said. ''I'm not going back fully until I feel like 100 percent, but I am cleared.''
Wisconsin is next scheduled to practice in Omaha on Wednesday.
