http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568580/s/3ec1abdc/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ctennis0C11117240A0CToni0ENadal0Eunhappy0Ewith0Eappointment0Eof0EGala0ELeon0Eas0Efirst0Efemale0Ecaptain0Eof0ESpains0EDavis0ECup0Eteam0Bhtml/story01.htm
Toni Nadal unhappy with appointment of Gala Leon as first female captain of Spain's Davis Cup team
By Simon Briggs, Tennis Correspondent
8:36PM BST 23 Sep 2014
Comments
Tennis may be the king – or queen – of sports when it comes to gender equality, but putting a woman in charge of an all-male team is going too far, according to Rafael Nadal’s uncle and coach Toni Nadal.
Nadal Snr was reacting to the news that Gala León, who reached a high point of No 27 on the WTA tour in the summer of 2000, has been appointed as Spain’s Davis Cup captain, succeeding the former French Open champion and world No 1 Carlos Moya.
“It is preferable that [the captain] is someone with a background in the world of men’s tennis,” Nadal said, in an interview broadcast on the Onda Cero radio station. “I have nothing against her. I don’t know what her capabilities are, and I hope she does her job well, but in theory she is a person that doesn’t know men’s tennis, because men’s tennis isn’t the same as women’s tennis.”
This was a matter of pragmatism, rather than ideology, Nadal explained. Had León spent 10 years coaching on the men’s tour, then he would have had no objection. Yet her previous experience was mainly with female players, until her appointment in June as the first female sports director of the Spanish tennis federation.
In the circumstances, Nadal said, he would rather have seen a high-profile man such as Juan Carlos Ferrero, the 2003 French Open champion, take over the role. León’s appointment, he said, could create problems “at dressing-room level”.
Nadal's coach criticised for 'sexist' comments
Williams withdraws from Wuhan Open after illness
Andy Murray: I regret my 'let's do this!' tweet but back Scottish independence
Murray: I wouldn't send Scotland tweet again but I have no regrets
Federer agrees to replace Nadal in Indian league
Andy Murray trolling: Are you as sympathetic as you should be?
By any normal measure, Spain must be considered the biggest of tennis superpowers. They should probably be expected to rule the Davis Cup roost, given that they have two top-10 players in Rafael Nadal and David Ferrer, as well as eight other men in the world’s top 50. But Moya had a hard time finding willing participants this year and Spain have been relegated to Euro/Africa Zone Group 1 after a team featuring Roberto Bautista Agut and Pablo Andújar lost a play-off to Brazil this month.
Whatever strengths and weaknesses León will bring to her new role, one thing is clear: unless quality players commit to the Davis Cup, Spain will continue to struggle. But at least there was no suggestion that Rafael Nadal will make himself unavailable for future ties, at least once he has recovered from the wrist injury that kept him out of the US Open.
It is perhaps not surprising, in the light of Andy Murray’s appointment of a female coach this summer, that his reaction to Leon’s appointment was rather more positive.
“Congrats to Gala León Garcia for becoming first female Spanish Davis Cup captain today... hopefully first of many,” Murray wrote on Twitter.
Meanwhile, Serena Williams was forced to withdraw from a match for the second time in three months, and again there were reports that she was suffering from a virus. Williams had been leading Alizé Cornet, of France, by six games to five when she became unwell. “I felt dizzy and nauseous in the first set and couldn’t continue,” she said.
Williams was playing in the China Open in Wuhan, a tournament at which a number of women have struggled with the heat over the past few days. Other players suggested that there have been bugs doing the rounds of the locker room.
Whatever Williams was suffering from, her symptoms were unlike her bizarre attack of incoordination at Wimbledon in July.
