http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569351/s/43721ec5/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Cathletics0Clondon0Emarathon0C114156860CMarathon0Erunners0Eto0Ebe0Edrug0Etested0Ein0Estrict0Enew0Eregime0Eto0Eclampdown0Eon0Ewidespread0Edoping0Eof0Eelite0Eathletes0Bhtml/story01.htm
Marathon runners to be drug-tested in strict new regime to clampdown on widespread doping of elite athletes
By Ben Rumsby and Ben Bloom
1:45PM GMT 16 Feb 2015
Comments
Competitors at the London Marathon and the world’s other great marathons will be forced to submit to a strict new drug-testing regime following last year’s athletics doping scandal.
Revelations in Telegraph Sport and a German television documentary about the potential scale of the drugs problem in endurance running has prompted organisers of the six biggest marathons – London, New York, Boston, Chicago, Tokyo and Berlin – to fund increased out-of-competition testing among elite runners who take part in the events.
The crackdown, details of which will be formally announced at a press conference in Tokyo on Thursday, was agreed by umbrella body World Marathon Majors (WMM) in the wake of claims of widespread doping in athletics and a cover-up by the authorities, most notably in Russia.
A list of athletes with suspicious blood values which were alleged by a whistle-blower not to have been correctly followed up included multiple marathon winners, according to analysis of the documents by Telegraph Sport.
The claims of wrongdoing have led to more than one resignation and are currently being investigated by the ethics committee of athletics’ governing body, the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF).
Mark Carney to run London Marathon
Farah puts marathon plans on hold
Farah pulls out of Bupa London 10,000
Russian marathon star banned
WMM believes out-of-competition testing conducted by the IAAF has proven insufficient, particularly in countries such as Russia and Kenya.
It has already paid for some tests itself, most notably that which caught Rita Jeptoo, the Kenyan winner of the last two Boston and Chicago marathons.
IAAF anti-doping manager Thomas Capdevielle said of the WMM initiative: “They have offered a contribution to our programme to implement an enhanced programme, like a sub-programme, for marathon runners.
“It basically means systematic testing at races for all the elite runners – as we have been doing for the past few years – but also follow-up urine testing out of competition and giving more resources to following up the top 100 or 150 elite marathon runners in the world.
“We will have a sub group that we will closely follow up both with ABP [athlete biological passport] testing and urine testing.”
The list of athletes with suspicious blood values, which was compiled using data recorded between 2001-08, contained three Britons, including a major star.
It also named a staggering 58 Russians and 25 Kenyans, three London 2012 champions and scores of gold medallists from other Olympics and major championships, as well as current and former world record holders.
All those accused of failing to act on the information or of covering up doping have denied any wrongdoing.
