http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568808/s/447e695e/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cmanchester0Ecity0C114778270CBarcelona0Ev0EManchester0ECity0EAndres0EIniesta0Evows0Eto0Emake0ECity0Esuffer0Bhtml/story01.htm
Barcelona v Manchester City: Andres Iniesta vows to make City 'suffer'
By Mark Ogden, in Barcelona
3:25PM GMT 17 Mar 2015
Comments
Andres Iniesta claims Barcelona must make Manchester City ‘suffer’ in the Nou Camp tomorrow, with Manuel Pellegrini’s team facing Champions League elimination against the La Liga leaders.
City face the four-time European champions needing to score at least two goals to keep their hopes alive after losing 2-1 in the round of 16 first-leg tie at the Etihad Stadium last month.
Having lost at Burnley on Saturday – a defeat which leaves City six points behind Premier League leaders Chelsea – the champions travel to Barcelona with the Champions League offering their only realistic prospect of silverware this season.
But Spain midfielder Iniesta claims that Barcelona are ready to exploit their first-leg by making the 90 minutes as difficult possible for City.
“We will have to play in a comprehensive manner so that they (City) have to suffer and follow the ball,” Iniesta said. “We must find our superior skills as much as possible.
“If we don’t do this, City can achieve their objective, but we must control the situation as much as possible.
Pell's hell: Manuel Pellegrini is under pressure at Manchester City
“City are a very sound team, with high quality players in all positions and it is a difficult opponent for us to overcome.
“They are very dangerous because of their players. In just one minute, they can turn the result upside down.
“So at all levels, we must be 200 per cent concentrated. We cannot make the mistake, and will not make the mistake, that we have guarantees because of the first-leg scoreline.
“We need to get the ball, make them run and do all possible to be in the next round.”

Barcelona face City on Wednesday before tackling Real Madrid in El Clasico on Sunday – a sequence which could define the club’s season.
But while a draw in both games would strengthen Barcelona’s prospects of success in both the Champions League and La Liga, Iniesta insists that Luis Enrique’s will not play for a draw in either game.
“You go out to win, especially when playing at home,” Iniesta said. “The best thing is to win and we will see tomorrow how the match goes.
“But we know with a draw or win, we will qualify for the next round, so I would sign up for a draw now because it would mean we are in the next round.
Deadly: Luis Suárez fires Barcelona in front at Eastlands (GETTY IMAGES)
“We have to go out to win the match, play as we usually play, and make the most of our opportunities.
“We will then see what happens. It’s obvious you don’t need to risk as much after getting a good first-leg result, but it is very difficult to predict what will happen.
“As for Sunday, we have to think about the City game first because if we don’t play well, they have players up front who can change a match on their own.”
