Barcelona vs Manchester City, Champions League: as it happened
By Alan Tyers
10:04PM GMT 18 Mar 2015
• Barcelona v Manchester City, player ratings • Henry Winter's match report on Hart brilliance • Messi too good to play in England & other things we learned • Pellegrini is in peril at City - whatever he says in public • City have barely progressed despite spending £327m since 2011 • City monitoring Wolfsburg midfielder De Bruyne
FULL TIME: BARCELONA 1 MANCHESTER CITY 0 (3-1 on agg to Barca)
22.15 That about wraps it up. Well played Joe Hart, kept City in it, sorta kinda, but they were outclassed in truth. England's interest in the Champions League is over for the year. Goodnight.
22.10 And here is Rob Bagchi with Five Things We Learned.
Messi is too good to play in England: During the winter of his discontent with Luis Enrique at Barcelona, speculation was rife that Lionel Messi might be looking for a move to the Premier League as he dropped hints of his dissatisfaction. Since the New Year, though, he has been resurgent, driving forward with the old verve, reading his team-mates’ runs into space and delivering perfectly weighted passes into their paths. The ease with which he nutmegged the English champions’ players, the whirling movement of his colleagues and the fouls he invited suggest that in peak form playing in England would be no test at all. A lucrative encore before retirement perhaps, but going at his peak would be a betrayal of his talent.
Do you agree? Is Messi too good for the likes of us?
<noframe>Twitter: Paul Hayward - Dismissed from the Champions League, the Premier League will have to settle again for the title of best Punch and Judy show in Europe.</noframe>
22.00 Here is Henry Winter's match report.
When this narrow scoreline is inscribed in the Champions League history books, it needs to be accompanied by an asterix denoting the influence of Joe Hart.
Manchester City are out of Europe and were lucky it was not a rout. Only the greatest performance of Hart’s career rescued City from an almighty mauling.
There can be no consolation from another departure from Europe, and the inquest will deepen for Manuel Pellegrini, but there had to be huge admiration for City’s remarkable keeper.
Having saved a penalty from Lionel Messi in the first leg, Hart proceeded to deny Messi again, Luis Suarez and particularly Neymar. Hart made seven superb saves and had no chance with Ivan Rakitic’s first-half goal, having been left exposed by his defence and midfield as Messi dominated.
21.56 "In the last ten minutes you could see they were not trying hard, they were thinking about the Clasico" - interesting argument from Thierry Henry on the Barcelona players.
21.55 Coming up: Barcelona v Manchester City, player ratings
Mark Ogden had this to say about Joe Hart
Joe Hart - Exposed time and again by his defenders, but the England keeper stood up well to the test and produced a series of crucial saves to spare his team a heavy defeat.
But which City player got the harshest mark from Mark? Barcelona v Manchester City player ratings

<noframe>Twitter: James Maw - Redknapp: "A Band-Aid won't fix Man City - they need major surgery. They need an injection..." Not sure that's really major surgery, Jamie.</noframe>
21.50 "Something has to be done. Maybe some new players, maybe changing the manager - I don't agree," says Thierry Henry. With whom don't you agree, Thierry?
"They've had a great squad for the Premier League but not for Europe. They need to change it. They need some new players with energy, pace and youth," says Jamie Carragher.
21.49 And here is an email from Andrew Holgate:
Nutmegging comes from the age old slang "nutmegs" meaning testicles. Messi has made a few city player look like nutmegs.
21.47 Joe with a hostage to ridicule: "We go again."
21.45 Joe Hart: "We've gone out to a magnificent side. We hung in there and then we had a big chance. But we didn't take it. It was a busy night for me. I know full well they think they have to pass at all times so I try to rush them."
Reader Michael Hart emails to say:
Joe Hart : “shop window” display.
21.42 So. All of the English teams are out of Europe. Frederick Stringer has an email about all of the English teams being out of Europe. Hit it, Frederick:
With the exit of City, all English clubs are out of the "Champions league" which shows how fans & newspapers alike have overestimated English football.
FULL TIME: BARCELONA 1 MANCHESTER CITY 0 (3-1 on agg to Barca) Well, that was miles more entertaining than one might have expected. Joe Hart was AMAZING. Barcelona could have had four or five. City, though, should have had one - Aguero with a penalty saved. Stick around for the reaction.
90 mins: Insane! Neymar clean through again, smashes it at goal, and Hart has stopped another one. Of course he has. Oh, Dani Alves has been replaced by Adriano.
88 mins: One of the all-time great goalkeeping performances in a 1-0 defeat I reckon. Neymar has sliced City open yet again, given it to Messi, who spins and shoots... that man Hart throws himself in the way of the shot and makes yet another amazing save.
87 mins: Lampard's on. Milner off. #proudtobeEnglish
<noframe>Twitter: Mark Ogden - If you're going to have a career-best performance, might as well have it in the Nou Camp <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23Hart" target="_blank">#Hart</a></noframe>
86 mins: Neymar and Suarez ripping it up. Ball hits the bar! Now some wors between the front three when Suarez gets on to Messi's ball but fails to spot Messi for the cut-back.

83 mins: Rafinha comes on. Replaces Rakitic.
82 mins: Demichelis has fouled Suarez, goes in the book. had to make the foul, Suarex racing clear.
81 mins: Kolarov gets to the byline and is able to deliver a cross, too near to the goalie. Despite being totally battered for periods of this tie, City are weirdly kind of sort of slightly a bit still making a game of this.
79 mins: That nice Dani Alves is into the book for fouling David Silva. I think I am right in saying that he'll miss the next game?
78 mins: And Barcelona break right away, oh dear, this could be curtains. Neymar races onto it and Joe Hart has raced out to make yet another world class one-on-one save.
77 mins: Aguero steps up... Penalty saved! Poor penalty. Perfect height, not that far from the keeper, and Ter Stegen has saved that with something to spare.
<noframe>Twitter: Mark Ogden - Seven great saves by Hart now. Maybe he should take this penalty...</noframe>
76 mins: Mascherano has fouled Aguero in the box and it is a penalty! Actually, he was sandwiched in between Mascherano in front and Pique from behind, Aguero in the Lucky Pierre role. I think maybe Pique made contact from behind, maybe Aguero trod on the player's foot, dunno. BIt of a soft pen.
75 mins: Joe Hart with another fine stop, coming out and denying Neymar a one-on-one.
72 mins: Yaya, who had been doing rather well, is taken off in favour of Bony. Odd choice.
70 mins: Barcelona have the ball in the net! But it's ruled offside. Long Suarez ball over the top, a Neymar shot from close range and Hart parries. The work of a moment for Alba to tap in from the narrow angle... but surely he must be offside?
68 mins: Couple of poweful runs from Yaya, still a fine sight when he gets those long levers working. cracks a shot into the side netting. Meanwhile, Juventus have got the second against Dortmund and look home and hosed.
66 mins: Open game. Alarm for Messi fans as their man goes down under a hard challenge. he's okay. Seconds later, he has the ball in the City box and Joe Hart slides out heroically to stop him shooting. Tom Edwards on that bonkers Youth Cup game
Full time in the FA Youth Cup and Chelsea U18s have beaten Spurs 5-2 on the night (agg 5-4). They'll go into the final for the fourth year in a row where they will face either Leicester or Man City.
65 mins: And from that very move, Barca break. They are in acres. Neymar racing down the left, slides it through to Messi... Messi into the box... is this the hammer blow? no! Hart does really well not to commit, and he's managed to force Messi wide.
64 mins: Remarkable passage of play. City get down the Barca end, Navas does very well to get in the box and cross. The City players are queuing up, but he somehow manages to pull it back behind all of them. There's some panic and pinball in the Barca box, but City are denied.
62 mins: Neymar into Messi, Messi to Suarez, and the City defence is opened up as easily as that. Luis cracks a shot at goal but it just slides off his boot a touch and is into the side netting.
58 mins: City doing alright the last few minutes. They're on the charge down the left, Aguero is putting in a shift. Cross is cleared.
57 mins: Solo effort from Messi, he gets a shot away. Deflected behind
56 mins: Good spell for City. Ter Stegen has made an error of judgement and come miles out of his goal. He tries to beat Aguero on the edge of his area! Aguero robs him and tries to chip from distance. Kolarov now has a crack but finds Ter Stegen has taken up a more traditional goalkeeper's position ie in the goal and he saves with some ease.
53 mins: Alba fouls Silva, and Fernandinho isn't a million miles off with the header.
50 mins: Darting run by Aguero, who takes it on his chest and beats Pique. Hacked clear by a crowd scene of Barca backs. Tom Edwards has got his eye on another match this evening - and it sounds like a bit of a cracker.
FA Youth Cup: Chelsea 5-2 Tottenham (Agg 5-4). After winning the first leg at White Hart Lane 2-0, Spurs have reverted to type and capitulated in astonishing style, conceding a whopping five goals at Stamford Bridge. They're just going into five minutes of added time...
48 mins: "Yaya cannot play in a two. The evidence is overwhelming. He can still be a fantastic impact player or going forward or as a number ten. But he cannot play in a central midfield pair" - Gary Neville sums up Toure's woes, as the big man lets Ratikic get away. Rakitic shoots wide. Barca all over City, now Alba shoots, now Messi.
<noframe>Twitter: John Nicholson - You've got to wonder how heavy Yaya Toure will be 3 years after retiring. He'll be a proper chair breaker.</noframe>
46 mins: Second half kicks off, Martin DM has got his hands full with Suarez. The ball across drops for Iniesta who shoots on target, but weakly. Nasri sensibly withdrawn, Navas on.
20.45 I counted at least three nutmegs in that half from Messi. Over/under on the second period? He did one that was so cool Pep Guardiola buried his face in his hands in amazement!

20.43 Let's grab a few emails. Jukka Itäkylä kicks us off:
How about deleting your “TOO DEFERENTIAL” ( 40 mins ) and instead say VERY PIVOTAL. Closer to the fact, Alan.
And here is Andy Holgate:
Just seen a No to Racism advert. Whilst commendable, the ugliness of the players featured made my children cry. Ribery, Bale, Ozil and others. Can we have a No to Ugliness campaign?
Harsh. Very harsh.
HALF TIME: BARCELONA 1 MANCHESTER CITY 0 (3-1 on agg to Barca) Well, Messi delightful and the supporting cast excellent too. They've scored one and hit the woodwork twice. City totally outclassed, but they cannot really be blamed for that. Messi just too good. Four City players booked... and you would fancy one of them at least to see red.
43 mins: Kompany and Demichelis are out of position. This is one for the giant iPad crowd. They should be within a few yards of each other as a pair, in fact they're acres apart. Neymar slides it through the massive gap for Suarez, who dinks the ball over Hart... it rolls slowly towards the goal... and hits the post! Wow.
41 mins: City give Suarez a free header from a corner. That is unforgivable. Luckily for City, he cannot do the business.
40 mins: Neymar and Messi up to it again. Messi with a lovely run, attracting the whole City defence to him, and chipping it over for Neymar. He tries to give Lionel the return pass when maybe a shot would have been a better bet. THAT'S BARCELONA'S WEAKNESS - THEY'RE ALL TOO DEFERENTIAL TO MESSI. It is deflected behind for a corner.
37 mins: Ooh Messi! He nutmegs James Milner and, brilliantly, Pep Guardiola in the crowd laughs and covers his face in disbelief! That was a bit spesh.
36 mins: That makes Nasri the fourth City player booked, and Barcelona will almost certainly be playing some of this match against ten men.
<noframe>Twitter: Stuart Brennan - In a strange way, that goal makes little difference - City still need 2 goals</noframe>
Wahey! The lads on the telly hadn't got to that one yet.
34 mins: Nasri, the little so-and-so, has just kicked Neymar for no reason. Deserved yellow. Pointless and dirty, could well have just been sent off. I am pretty sure he will be, sooner or later.
32 mins: "Messi is a scandalous talent," says Gary Neville.
GOAL! What a goal. That will surely be it for City, but there's no shame in losing to that. City enjoying a decent little period and they're actually on the attack. But they lose the ball, and Messi shows great control, great dribling, and great vision to look up and loft it to Rakitic, who is unmarked. Good control Rakitic, and an excellent finish as well, looping it over Hart and putting the lid on this game. BARCELONA 1 MANCHESTER CITY 0 (Rakitic 31)
27 mins: Another expert freekick from Messi, somehow gets it over the wall from, what 21 yards, but even Lionel cannot quite get enough dip onto it. Roger Jones
City is not an English team, it is like all the others, a team of international footballers that play IN England. Why do you think England is so rubbish these days in the real internationals?
25 mins: Messi on the surge again, driving at the City area.... Silva slices him down from behind. He, rightly, goes into the book as well.
21 mins: Barcelona attempt a couple of more direct attacks, hitting balls into the channel, and pique is within a yard or two of finding L Suarez with a 60-yarder. But they soon revert to the classical method of... giving it Messi and expecting him to do something delightful. This he does here, sucking defenders towards him like concerned moths to a flame, and thus opening up space for Neymar, to whom he passes, unattended, on the left. City scramble into the path of Neymar's shot.
19 mins: No doubt at all about this freekick though - Kolarov has shoulder-barged Messi to the floor, cynical and probably pretty painful too for Master Leo. A justified yellow card.
18 mins: But the move breaks down. Suarez, quiet so far, treats us to one of his trademark tumble-and-snarl combos, demanding a freekick for what looked a pretty legit challenge by Demichelis . To be fair to Suarez, which one is of course loath to do, the accident-prone defender did kind of wrestle with him after the tackle and perhaps, on reflection, LS ought to have had a free-kick.
17 mins: City not without their moments. A corner now, cleared quite well by Barcelona, and for a moment a breakaway looks on...
15 mins: Normal service is soon resumed, though, as Neymar slithers forward and is stopped in the old fashioned style by Fernandinho, the referee feeling that it was a foul and awarding a free-kick to the home side. One L Messi - have you seen him? He's quite good - steps up and flicks the set piece expertly over the wall, but alas for him, onto the roof of the net.
13 mins: But what's this?! A storming run from old Yaya, slides it to James Milner who has suddenly appeared in the penalty box like an effective, if rather dull, magician, and is only denied a shot on goal by a desperate lunge from the Barcelona full-back.
11 mins: Awesome. Awesome football. Neymar nutmegs Kompany and plays it to Lionel. Messi gets the ball to feet and plays it into Iniesta who plays this frankly ridiculous little one-two spinny backheel thing perfectly back into the path of the Argentine.
10 mins: Hmm. City have already had a huge let-off, and don't look secure at all.
7 mins: Alba and Nasri involved in another laughable spat, that ends with not one but both of them hurling himself to the floor.
6 mins: Oh Vincent Kompany! What are you doing?! He dithers on the ball in his own area, loses it. Alves feeds Neymar. Neymar has acres of space and a world of time... lines it up... and hits the post! What a let off.
5 mins: Messi finds Neymar with a lovely little pass. Here Neymar, wonderful trick as he goes past Sagna, makes a bit of a mug of him if truth be told. His pull-back is hacked clear.
4 mins: Jordi Alba and Nasri involved in a highly pathetic wuss-fight that ends with Alba literally giving Nasri a clip around the ear.
3 mins: Barcelona starting to happen, they have got City under pressure and Kolarov has to make a fine sliding interception. Ah, sorry Andrew. They've still 11 men.
2 mins: Quiet start. Andrew Holgate writes:
City are the last English team in the Champions League. I'll take that as a positive. The only way we can win tonight is if Barca are down to 9 men after 3 minutes.
1 mins: Right, we are underway. Neither side able to get it down and play in the first minute or so.
19.45 Here are the Barcelona boys.

19.43 The Champions League anthem is played to the now-traditional chorus of boos. Is that just City? I think some Barcelona fans might be joining in.
19.42 Here are the City team.

19.41 Flag-waving, selfie-snapping, smiling faces in the crowd. Most people expecting this to be something of a stroll for the home side. But who knows? Busquets is a big loss. Maybe Barcelona might have an off-day. Maybe Barcelona thoughts will be on the upcoming match with Real Madrid.
19.39 The other game tonight is that between Borussia Dortmund and Juventus. I'll keep you posted on that.
Barcelona: ter Stegen, Dani Alves, Pique, Mathieu, Jordi Alba, Rakitic, Mascherano, Iniesta, Messi, Suarez, Neymar. Subs: Bravo, Xavi, Pedro, Rafinha, Bartra, Sergi Roberto, Adriano.
Man City: Hart, Sagna, Kompany, Demichelis, Kolarov, Nasri, Toure, Fernandinho, Milner, Silva, Aguero. Subs: Caballero, Zabaleta, Fernando, Dzeko, Bony, Jesus Navas, Lampard.
Referee: Gianluca Rocchi (Firenze)
19.35 Let's get a check on those teams. The players have warmed up on the pitch and have now taken their leave.
19.33 Scott Syfert has got further evidence for his theory.
Pondering this more, can it be coincidence that Frank Lampard had a critical role (and assist) in that Chelsea game, and now sits on the Man City bench today? Can it? Can it? Can it?
19.30 Oddest news story of the day so far. Hope he makes it. "Champion The Match". What a slogan. We say that all the time round our way.

19.25 And here is William Kalua, who says:
They say nothing is imposible in football but we have also to be mindful of the quality of opposition they are facing. It's a mammoth task, but I wish them good luck being the only English team left. Lastly am inviting you to visit Malawi the warm heart of Africa. Stay blessed.
19.22 An excellent email arrives from Scott Syfert, who notes:
The last English miracle at the Nou Camp was of course Nando Torres’ breakaway goal for 10-men Chelsea. Yesterday Torres scored the CL winner for Athletico. Coincidence? Foreshadowing? Dark conspiracy? Or, to quote pundit Homer Simpson, “just a bunch of stuff that happened?”
19.20 It's a heroic comeback from me after 25 minutes of computer hell. Can City accomplish something similarly spectacular?
19.00 You can bet on City at 10/1 to win this game. Any takers?
18.55 Aw man, more computer aggro. FFS. Let me fix it. Meanwhile, read about the do-or-die situation for Vinny K. Kompany has final opportunity to justify 'presidential' billing
18.45 Evening all. Tyers here. And without further - indeed any - ado, here are the teams.
Man City: Hart, Sagna, Kompany (C), Demichelis, Kolarov, Nasri, Fernandinho, Toure, Milner, Silva, Aguero. Subs: Caballero, Zabaleta, Lampard, Fernando, Bony, Navas, Dzeko
<noframe>Twitter: FC Barcelona - Bar&ccedil;a's XI: 1.Ter Stegen 3.Piqu&eacute; 4. Rakitic 8. Iniesta 9. Su&aacute;rez 10. Messi 11. Neymar 14. Mascherano 18. J. Alba 22. Alves 24. Mathieu</noframe>
Manchester City manager Manuel Pellegrini has called on his team to deliver in Barcelona as he again asserted confidence in his position.
Pellegrini has become noticeably more bullish in recent weeks as pressure and speculation over his future have increased.
The Chilean is under considerable scrutiny with his side faltering in their Premier League title defence and seemingly needing to overturn a deficit in Barcelona to salvage their season.
City go to the Nou Camp for the second leg of their Champions League last-16 tie trailing 2-1 after defeat to the Catalan giants at the Etihad Stadium three weeks ago.
Pellegrini was inevitably asked about his future as he met media on the eve of the match but he brushed off the questions and tried to rouse his players.
The 61-year-old said: "First of all I respect all opinions but I don't think my seat is in danger. But even if it was I wouldn't do anything differently, I would do the same thing and focus and concentrate on the game.
"I want to say there's no such strange atmosphere at Manchester City. We're second in the Premier League, still playing strong and are going to fight to prove it tomorrow.
"It is a good opportunity for our team and the only way to prove it is to beat one of the biggest teams in Europe and we have that chance tomorrow."
Pellegrini was joined at the pre-match press conference by key midfielder and former Barcelona player Yaya Toure, who missed the first leg through suspension.
Toure was also asked about Pellegrini's future but chose to focus on the collective responsibility of everyone involved in the team.
"I think football is like that," said Toure, when asked about the rumours concerning Pellegrini.
"Last year was brilliant, everyone was saying Manchester City are a top team in Europe, but all of a sudden we have some problems and we're the worst team in the world. We can deal with that.
"We all know what we have to do, the owners have spent a lot of money to make this one of the top clubs in Europe. We have had some difficulties but we are working hard.
"It's not the first time we have been in this situation. We'll try to do it for the fans and the club and the people who continue to help us."
Alan Tyers will be here from 6.30pm to bring you build up, team news and live coverage

