http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568808/s/4464407a/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Ccompetitions0Cpremier0Eleague0C114723140CBurnley0E10EManchester0ECity0E0A0Ematch0Ereport0ECitys0EPremier0ELeague0Etitle0Ehopes0Efading0Eafter0ETurf0EMoor0Edefeat0Bhtml/story01.htm
Burnley 1 Manchester City 0, match report: City's Premier League title hopes fading after Turf Moor defeat
By Mark Ogden, at Turf Moor
7:40PM GMT 14 Mar 2015
Comments
He may have dismissed it as a ‘normal performance,’ one which led to Manchester City’s first defeat to Burnley since 1974, but the reality for Manuel Pellegrini as his team headed away from Turf Moor was that it is now Barcelona or bust for the champions and their beleaguered manager.
Five points adrift of leaders Chelsea, who have two games in hand, City are now shipping water in the title race to the extent that George Boyd’s stunning 61st minute goal left the club looking anxiously over their shoulder at an increasingly congested race for Champions League qualification.
Burnley’s objective is altogether more straightforward – to avoid relegation – and this victory, earned by their greater passion and desire as much as Boyd’s goals, has given Sean Dyche’s team genuine hope of survival. But for Pellegrini, City’s fifth defeat in ten games oddly merited no more than a mild defence of his faltering team. Buoyed by Boyd: Burnley celebrate George Boyd's winning goal
“It was a normal performance,” Pellegrini said. “We didn’t played very bad, we created three or four chances and Burnley only had one chance, which ended with a beautiful goal.Of course we're doing something wrong as we are not winning the games we normally do, but when you have a mathematical chance, you have a chance to win the title. The reality is that it's more difficult to do so now."
Despite the distraction of Wednesday’s trip to the Nou Camp, Pellegrini resisted the temptation to rest key players, fielding as close to his full-strength team as possible minus the injured James Milner, but it barely showed. The line-up included captain Vincent Kompany, who was restored to the team after being dropped to the bench for the victory against Leicester ten days in the wake of a series of unconvincing performances. Subsequent reports of Kompany being involved in a half-time argument with Brazilian midfielder Fernandinho during the 2-1 defeat at Liverpool two weeks had raised doubts over the Belgian’s position at the heart of Pellegrini’s back four and also posed questions as to the camaraderie within the City dressing-room. But with both Kompany and Fernandinho embracing before kick-off, the Anfield spat appeared to have been put aside for the greater good of earning crucial Premier League points against Dyche’s strugglers. Quick Silva: David Silva is quickly closed down at Turf Moor
Despite dominating while losing at Manchester United recently and fighting back to earn a point at Chelsea last month, Burnley’s impressive performances have not generated the rewards they arguably deserved. Yet for all their endeavour, Burnley began this game in the bottom three after failing to collect maximum points since mid-January. Just as City are running out of time to catch Chelsea at the top of the table, Burnley’s margin for error at the bottom is also diminishing on a weekly basis and the sense of Dyche’s players having a gun to their head was evident from their bright start.
City weathered the storm, though, and began to test Burnley goalkeeper Tom Heaton, who saved well from Edin Dzeko midway through the first-half. But having scored six goals on two of their last four visits to Turf Moor, the champions were not displaying their usual ruthlessness in this fixture. And City’s first-half performance only served to encourage the hosts, with gaping holes left by Fernandinho and the ambling Yaya Toure on numerous occasions.The tale of Burnley’s season, however, has been their inability to sustain their energy for ninety minutes, with too many points dropped with the conceding of late goals. Screamer: George Boyd's long range effort dented Man City's title bid
City’s determined start to the second-half suggested they were keen to get the game won before the dying stages, though, with every ounce of perspiration saved counting as a positive ahead of the trip to Catalonia. Sergio Aguero created a golden chance for David Silva to open the scoring with a touch of brilliance by turning his marker on the halfway line before feeding the Spaniard inside the penalty area. Silva’s first touch was too heavy, though, and it forced him wide of Heaton, who was able to narrow the angle and smother the City midfielder’s effort.
Two minutes later, Aguero went close himself with a clipped volley at the near post which flew just wide of the upright. But City were struggling to find the killer touch and Dzeko summed up their performance – and his – with a woeful shot from Silva’s pass which went out for a Burnley throw-in. That miss proved crucial, coming as it did just sixty seconds before Boyd’s stunning opener. Helpless Hart: The ball flies past Joe Hart to secure all three points for the home side
Martin Demichelis’s foul on Danny Ings led to the free-kick from which Trippier floated the ball into the penalty area. Kompany headed clear, but the ball dropped to Boyd, whose half-volley from 20 yards skimmed into the far corner, beyond Joe Hart’s grasp. City were denied an injury-time penalty, when Ben Mee fouled Pablo Zabaleta, but such a late escape would not have been deserved.
“Our will and desire to be in the Premier League is all on show,” Burnley manager Dyche said. “But we won't get too carried away.
"We know there's a long way to go. We haven't been broken from defeat - we've been dented a few times - but this win reinforces confidence and belief.”
