http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568808/s/44633474/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cfootball0Elive0Eblogs0C114722580CBurnley0Evs0EManchester0ECity0EPremier0ELeague0Elive0Bhtml/story01.htm
Burnley vs Manchester City, Premier League: as it happened
By Darren Richman
7:18PM GMT 14 Mar 2015
• Manuel Pellegrini takes swipe at Chelsea over referee behaviour • Joe Hart inspired by tales of triumph in Manchester's homeless community • Pellegrini insists he will see out his contract despite Napoli link • Who will survive the great Premier League relegation battle?

Can City rein in Chelsea? Will Burnley beat the drop? Email your thoughts to
FULL TIME Burnley 1 Manchester City 0 A magnificent performance from the hosts. To keep a clean sheet at home to the champions in such circumstances has to be applauded. A huge win that has surely ended any hopes City might have had of winning the title.

90 min We will have four minutes of added time. Zabaleta goes down in the box under a challenge from Mee but, astonishingly, the referee deems it a dive. Looked a certain penalty.
87 min Burnley are just minutes away from a famous victory that would have huge repercussions at both ends of the table.
84 min Toure had a poor game in truth but he's far from the only one in a blue shirt that could be said about.
82 min This is enthralling. The home fans are cheering every time their side touches the ball. It's not all that frequent.
81 min Burnley have every single player in their own half, they're protecting this lead as you might your only child. Aguero heads another one over the bar after a magnificent cross from Toure. He has only himself to blame this time. That was Toure's final contribution, he's replaced by Lampard.
78 min Niall Quinn is now speculating that there must be disharmony in the camp, so disappointed is he with City's performance. One wonders what lies in store for Pellegrini.
76 min Ings gives the ball away cheaply and City break with speed. Good work from Aguero before he releases Bony, who fires his shot stright at Heaton. Desperate times for the visitors.
73 min Toure tries his luck from range but the ball is deflected wide for a corner. Burnley clear their lines with ease. Jovetic comes on for Silva, interesting call from the City manager.
70 min Duff booked for a foul on Aguero.
69 min Aguero heads wide and frustration is clearly beginning to creep in. He starts screaming at his colleagues in response to the miss.
68 min What a goal that was. Let's be clear - City have just over 20 minutes to keep the title race alive.
61 min GOAL! Stunning strike from George Boyd. A free kick is floated into the box, Kompany heads it out but, such is his luck at the moment, only as far as the Scotland international. He meets it on the half volley and slams it into the bottom right hand corner.
59 min Demichelis booked for a cynical foul and the home supporters are happier about that one.
57 min Mee is booked for a challenge on Navas and Dyche is understandably livid. City could have had a couple of players in the book and this was by no means the worst tackle we've seen this evening.
55 min Brilliant dipping volley from Boyd on the edge of the box and it sails just wide of the left hand post. The home fans have found their voice once more.
53 min Dreadful from Silva and that's a sentence you rarely see. The Spaniard's touch completely deserts him after a lovely turn and through ball from Aguero. Moments later and Aguero knocks it wide from close range. The visitors have improved since the break.
49 min Sarcastic cheers for the referee after Andre Mariner gives Burnley a free kick.
47 min This must be very frustrating for the City supporters. Once again, their attempts to retain the Premier League trophy have been utterly underwhelming. This is a must-win game and the players just don't seem all that interested. Aguero is lucky to get away without at least a yellow card for a high challenge on Duff.
HALF TIME Burnley 0 Manchester City 0. City might be champions but they do not look like champions elect.

43 min City are seeing so much of the ball but they're struggling to break down a supremely well organised Burnley side. The hosts will be desperate to make it to half time all square and avoid emulating West Ham earlier in the day.
39 min Much better from Burnley, the hosts causing City problems by aiming to get the ball into the path of Ings whenever possible.
35 min Brilliant work from Navas before Aguero eventaully finds himself with a half chance from a difficult angle. The mercurial Argentinian blasts the ball over the bar from close range but Pellegrini's side have upped their game in the last few minutes.
33 min It would have been harsh to give a penalty against Fernandinho for handball but you've seen them given.
31 min A shot on target! Dzeko hits the target from an acute angle but Heaton was never truly in trouble. The tempo seemed to be dipping but Burnley respond by going down the other end and testing Hart for the first time through Arfield. Cries of handball once again fall on deaf ears.
24 min It's all gone a bit quiet and neither team is really threatening. Burnley will be happy enough with the way things are going. Still no shots on target.
20 min Can't argue with that.
<noframe>Twitter: Manchester City FC - 16. Still 0-0 here at Turf Moor. City with more of the ball but there's been little penetration as yet. Burnley continuing to press.</noframe>
17 min Mee, against his old team, once again causing trouble in the City box from a corner. The danger is snuffed out but the visitors are struggling to get a foothold in this game at the moment.
14 min It was probably to be expected but Burnley have started the brighter of the two sides while City look a little sluggish.
12 min Mee heads over at the far post after a lovely corner routine that called to mind the old Steve Bould near post flick on for Arsenal.
9 min Burnley appeal for a penalty after it strikes Clichy in the chest. To be fair, it was just the fans and the players didn't seem all that interested.
7 min Fine work from Navas on the right hand side. He whips in a glorious ball towards Dzeko and Heaton does well to get to it as quickly as he does. City look like they mean business.
4 min City are inexplicably in their darker strip rather than sky blue. No idea why, answers on a postcard please. Or better still, an email.
2 min The home fans are in fine voice and they'll be hoping to see their team put the reinstated Kompany under pressure early on. Ings tries his luck from distance but the ball sails over the bar.
17.25 If the Burnley fans don't have a chant to the tune of this for Danny Ings then they really need to up their game.

17.22 Burnley have not kept a clean sheet in their last 12 Premier League games. It's hard to imagine that's going to change today but, as they say, anything is possible. Except the things that aren't.
17.07 Have some subs too.
Burnley: Gilks, Keane, Reid, Ward, Jutkiewicz, Wallace, Kightly
Manchester City Caballero, Mangala, Sagna, Nasri, Lampard, Bony, Jovetic
17.04 Arsenal moved to within one point of City with their win over West Ham earlier so this is a big one for the reigning champions, especially if they are to have any chance of catching Chelsea. Here's the team news:
Burnley: Heaton, Trippier, Shackell, Duff, Mee, Barnes, Arfield, Jones, Boyd; Ings, Vokes
Manchester City: Hart, Zabaleta, Kompany, Demichelis, Clichy, Navas, Fernandinho, Yaya Toure, Silva, Dzeko, Aguero
12.00pm With Chelsea not in action until tomorrow, Manchester City have an ideal chance to apply some pressure today if they can beat everyone's second favourite team Burnley. On paper, it should be no contest: Burnley are winless in their last five, while City have the firepower, the experience and the motivation to win by a hatful. And yet...these sides drew 2-2 at Eastlands earlier in the season and the Clarets have made a habit of upsetting the Premier League's elite, having also taken points from Chelsea and Manchester United this season. Kick-off is at 5.30pm and Darren Richman will bring you all the team news - plus the action - a bit later today.
