http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568808/s/44600845/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cmanchester0Ecity0C114718740CManuel0EPellegrini0EUnlike0EChelsea0Eyou0Ewill0Enever0Esee0Ea0EManchester0ECity0Eplayer0Esurround0Eand0Eintimidate0Ereferee0Bhtml/story01.htm
Manuel Pellegrini: Unlike Chelsea, you will never see a Manchester City player surround and intimidate referee
By Mark Ogden
10:30PM GMT 13 Mar 2015
Comments
Manuel Pellegrini has claimed his Manchester City team will “never surround the referee” after seeing Chelsea’s Champions League elimination against Paris St-Germain marred by the behaviour of Jose Mourinho’s players towards the match officials.
City, five points adrift of Premier League leaders Chelsea having played one game more than Mourinho’s team, can reduce the gap to two points with a victory at Burnley on Saturday evening ahead of Southampton’s game at Stamford Bridge on Sunday.
Pellegrini admits that results are now the priority ahead of performances. But the City manager insists that he will not instruct his team to confront officials in the manner that Chelsea’s players berated Dutch referee Bjorn Kuipers on Wednesday.
Manuel Pellegrini will not instruct his team to confront officials (PA)
“You will never see a City player surround the referee,” Pellegrini said. “Maybe you can discuss with the referee about a decision, but just one moment in the game. But I don’t think that’s the way this team is prepared to win. You must analyse which is the correct way and which is not the correct way.
“Every time the referee has a decision you have all the players on top of him and it’s impossible for the referee to work.
“I’m talking about a lot of things that happen in different games, with different teams, but they always work in trying to pressure the referee in every decision, so the referee always has problems.
“All the managers prepare their players to win, but there are different styles of winning.
“Maybe when you are winning the style doesn’t matter. When you don’t win and then start to criticise, I can’t accept that.”
Pellegrini, meanwhile, has insisted he will see out his City contract and remain as manager next season, despite claims from his agent that he will consider a summer move to Napoli.
• Mourinho's Sky Sports rant: full transcript • Chelsea v Southampton: match preview • Mourinho has lost some of his stardust at Chelsea • Terry: We will keep pressurising referees • Ibrahimovic slams Chelsea 'babies'
With uncertainty surrounding his future, Pellegrini’s agent, Jesus Martinez, has claimed in Italy that the former Real Madrid, Villarreal and Malaga coach could replace Rafael Benitez at Napoli if the position becomes available this summer.
“Manuel has another year on his contract, and he intends to respect it,” Martinez told Radio CRC. “I don’t know, however, what the leadership’s intentions are.
‘Pellegrini has Italian roots, he’s also been on holiday in Naples. He’s a lover of language and culture. He greatly appreciates Italy and Neapolitan culture.
’You never know in football. Could he replace Benitez? Pellegrini does not allow me to talk about him in relation to a position at a club which already has a coach under contract.
’We have to wait a few more months, then if [Napoli President Aurelio] De Laurentiis calls, we’ll discuss it.’
Rafael Benitez is likely to leave Napoli at the end of this season (EPA)
However, Pellegrini rejected those suggestions by claiming he will stay at City and look to extend his contract if offered a new deal.
“The situation with my future is easy,” Pellegrini said. I have a contract here until June 2016 and will fulfil my contract here.
“I always try to finish my contract for the years I have signed it for. I am very happy here and don’t have any problems. But you never know what can happen in the future.
“But if I can extend contract, I will extend it. I am very happy, I don’t have any problems.”
