http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568808/s/445d9b8a/sc/35/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cmanchester0Ecity0C11470A1470CJoe0EHart0EFans0Etake0Ethe0EMickey0Eout0Eof0EHead0Eand0EShoulders0Ebut0Ethats0Ewhy0EI0Elove0Efootball0Bhtml/story01.htm
Joe Hart inspired by tales of triumph in Manchester's homeless community
By Henry Winter, Football Correspondent
5:02PM GMT 13 Mar 2015
Comments
Step out of Manchester Piccadilly station, turn right into town and pass a shop doorway occupied by a young, curled-up homeless man with a polystyrene cup for loose change accompanied by a sign reading “for poetry”. Around the corner, en route to the Etihad, another doorway is taken by another homeless person. Such scenes are familiar in many English cities.
Jack Wilshere has been involved in initiatives to tackle the problem of homelessness in London and now his England team-mate, Joe Hart, is engaged in work in Manchester with the Homeless FA and City in the Community. After first-team training on Wednesday, Hart joined his friend and former City keeper, David James, to share their expertise with two coaches from the Homeless FA.
James Shaw played for England in the Homeless World Cup in Chile last year while James Buckley, whose personal story takes being adopted, orphaned and then drifting into drugs, was at the 2012 version in Paris. Having learned from Hart and James, the pair will help coach 360 players at the Homeless FA’s England training programme running over six weeks at 11 clubs, including the likes of City, Aston Villa, Sunderland and Arsenal, before the men’s and women’s teams are chosen for the Homeless World Cup in Amsterdam in September.
James Buckley (left) now coaches the England homeless team with James Shaw (right), while Gareth Parker (centre) heads up the Homeless FA (PAUL COOPER)
Accelerated by economic issues, homelessness is a rising concern. “It’s definitely a problem,’’ said Hart. “Many have no direction so initiatives like this – with the incentive of a World Cup – are so inspiring for homeless people in a football city like Manchester, with United and City, a place where football is on everyone’s lips.
“They’re bringing people in, whether a 15-year-old guy or a 50-year-old lady, to train here, wear the City kit, make people feel good about themselves, and give them a new kind of direction.” The last Homeless FA scheme saw 46 per cent of players progress to further education, 61 per cent improve their housing situation and 67 per cent gain employment as well as challenge for the World Cup.
The current crop will work towards a Level One Sports Leaders UK qualification at centres like City’s magnificent £200m training complex. “This here must feel like a million miles away for them,’’ continued Hart, looking around at the sumptuous facilities. “But that’s the beauty of football. We’ve walked in, met them (Shaw and Buckley) and they very casually said ‘we don’t want to talk of our back-stories’. They wanted to talk football. They did mention the World Cup! I got in before they could and said: ‘You probably did a lot better than us!”
The England goalkeeper is one of the more grounded representatives of the national obsession. “I have to give my parents a lot of credit,’’ Hart reflected on life growing up in Shropshire. “Here at City, people like Sergio Agüero have come through hardships and travelled the world, to get here. I’ve been reading Sergio’s book, learning about him. If anyone was to ask about my upbringing, it was quiet and easy. I really enjoyed it, I had great people around me. I love my family. I still have my friends who I love from home.”
David James (right), the former City goalkeeper, joins Hart and Gareth Parker for training (Photo: PAUL COOPER)
Hard-working and happy, Hart has never changed. “That’s just me. I just feel comfortable in who I am. I feel comfortable in the people around me. I really love what I do.” Hart shrugged at the mention of fame. “I’m definitely not famous in 95% of my life, when I go home, when I’m with my friends, my family. When I’m with City and England, I go into football mode, that’s your role. But 95 per cent of my time I’m just that guy who fits in with that group, whether family or friends.”
The public seems to sense that and he regularly engages with opposition fans. “There’s some of it I don’t like. I sometimes look at someone and think is there any need to call me 15 swear-words and talk about my family? I do get that. That’s just how people are. That’s how they vent it (anger) at the game. But the majority of fans have fun with it. They take the Mickey out of Head & Shoulders. They call me ‘England’s No 7’. If they have an English goalkeeper who is their reserve keeper, he’s better than me!
“That’s football! That’s what I love. I turn round and laugh, of course. Some stuff genuinely does tickle me. Our City fans are hilarious in some of the stuff they come up with, not necessarily about me but good-hearted, witty comments. The banter between players and fans is a fantastic part of the game. The noisiest (away) fans are usually the German teams. Borussia Dortmund and Bayern Munich are awesome fans. They are just so organised.”
He admires Bayern in particular for another reason. “I love watching Manuel Neuer. He’s fascinating.’’ Why? Because of the sweeper-keeper tendencies? “No, that side of it doesn’t really interest me. That’s what he’s good at it, and him alone. I just like the way he plays. It’s not necessarily that smooth or pleasing on the eye, he’s just a fantastic goalkeeper.”
Hart found it “exciting” that there were so many good keepers around. “I really do think Thibaut Courtois is a big deal. I heard a lot of noise about him three years ago and that was when he was 19, and I thought: ‘All right, I’ll check this guy out.’ I saw immediately he’s high level. Obviously David de Gea this year has made save after save after save, he’s been fantastic. After what was said (critically) about him at the start, to do that (make so many saves for United) makes it even better.”
Hart himself has been repelling some formidable opponents. On Feb 24, the 27-year-old saved a penalty from the great Lionel Messi, a stop to rank alongside some of his most spectacular such as keeping out long-rangers from, amongst others, Cristiano Ronaldo, Robin van Persie, Wayne Rooney, Mario Götze and Robert Lewandowski. And those were just with City.
Hart saves a Lionel Messi penalty at the Etihad Stadium last month (Photo: GETTY IMAGES)
“I’ve played against some pretty special people in my career,’’ Hart smiled. “You’re talking about the world’s greatest players and I’ll watch them at home, as a fan, casually, appreciating them as footballers.” At work, he analyses them closely. “With my coach Xabier (Mancisidor), we talk about certain players’ different styles, different techniques, different finishes to have in the back of my mind.
“But in the forefront there has to be the knowledge that anything can happen, especially with the world’s greatest players. With Messi, you have to be strong, have to be prepared for the worst. I analyse every penalty-taker before the game. I had convinced myself that was the way Messi was going. I’ve been wrong before. A lot of the time you dive and are looking back at the ball going the other way. That was where I thought he was going and it turned out to be right. It was a special feeling for me as well as the fans. It looks good on the CV but I want saves to be relevant.” This one was very relevant as it prevented Barcelona from taking home a bigger win than the 2-1.
Hart believes City can overcome Barcelona and the odds at the Nou Camp next Wednesday. “Yes, we can. We’re going to have a right go at it. We gave them a real run for their money when we calmed down and got into the game in the second half. They’re not expecting an easy night. We’re going there to win.”
He is driven by the desire to clutch the Champions League one day. “That’s our ambition. Of course we want to win that Champions League. We want to find our place in Europe and be up there with the best. We’ve had everything put in place for us and it’s now down to us, and we’ve failed ultimately over the past three seasons and we’ll see what happens in Barcelona.”
Most observers felt City were too open in the first leg. Hart disagreed. “Barcelona can rip open the tightest of defences so if you try to contain them it’s not going to happen; 180 minutes is a long time to keep them out so our mentality is to try to win the game, and I think we can do that there.”
He has also not given up hope of retaining the Premier League, despite being five points behind Chelsea, who have a game in hand. “Yes, of course we can catch Chelsea. We’ve proven that in the two times we’ve won the league. Hopefully we can do it again. Chelsea are a fantastic team, and have been for years at the top, since before Roman Abramovich’s investments, but obviously since then they’ve been a really solid club.”
Despite trailing Chelsea in the table, Hart remains confident City can retain the league title (REUTERS)
City boast players like Yaya Touré and Agüero who, on their day, can be unplayable, giving Hart even more belief that they can hunt Chelsea down. “Yaya can make football look ridiculously simple. He’s a big, powerful player. He doesn’t necessarily look like Steven Gerrard when he fires a ball, but he finds the man, finds the man. He’s always calm. He wins us games. Wow, some of the goals he scores from nothing!
“Sergio is absolutely awesome. I’ve noticed he’s come more into the awesome category this season. I’ve always known he was good. But he’s a special player. He’s ruthless. We almost make a heavy tackle in our half and if it lands in their half and he gets hold of it, I’m thinking he’s going to score. With the way we play football, the way we build up, and the beautiful football, to have Sergio as well is a massive weapon.”
He is quick to support the oft-criticised Manuel Pellegrini. “He’s a good manager, a good person. As he comes across to you is how he is with us. He’s a very genuine man. We can’t ask for much more than that. He tries to be calm. He tries to give us the right messages, and sets us up to win games.”
Hart was even impressed with the way the Chilean handled omitting him last season after some high-profile mistakes. “As much as I didn’t want it to happen, if you’re going to be dropped, he did it in the right way. He explained to me what his thought process was. I just got my head round it, and decided I was going to use that time to my benefit, to reassess where I am, to work on what I need to, which was just in general, no specific thing. You’re out of the team, get over it, and make the best of it. I spoke in length with my coach, I asked what the manager wanted from me, spoke to people around me, and just gradually picked up things.’’
He dismissed the idea that City’s changing defence cannot help him. “Not really because that’s how we’ve done things for the past four for five years, both with England and with City. That’s the norm for me and I don’t know whether it would be a benefit or disadvantage to have it settled.”
He was keen to express support for Vincent Kompany, the Belgian centre-half recently dropped and reported to have had a heated dressing-room argument with the midfielder Fernandinho. “Vinnie takes his role as captain of both his club and his country very seriously. He’s a phenomenal player, right up there with the very best. I played a few England games with JT (John Terry) and he’s fantastic on the pitch. Wow! What a player! He’s still proving it now, and he can definitely keep going (at 34). He’s proved that week in, week out, year in, year out at the highest levels. For me, Vinnie is that guy, right up there. He’s our leader, a phenomenal player and I don’t think you could do anything to change my opinion of him.”
City captain Vincent Kompany is 'up there with the very best' according to Hart (REX FEATURES)
City fans who watch Hart closely argue that his distribution, never his strongest point, has improved recently, especially when Jesús Navas plays, giving him a speedy outlet down the flank, or now that Wilfried Bony has arrived to scrap more for long balls. “I’m working on distribution daily,’’ said Hart, adding that there was another significant factor. “People have started playing differently against us recently.
“People have come fully intending to get a result whereas before it was difficult because it was 11 men (behind the ball), damage limitation, as we were banging five or six goals in a game. Now people are leaving a bit more space for me to play to our players. It’s the Premier League. Everyone goes for each other. Everyone feels they can beat anyone.”
He faces Burnley on Saturday, Barcelona on Wednesday and the following day will be named in the England squad to face Lithuania and Italy with the latter bringing his 50th cap. “I don’t think you can ever feel established with England,’’ he said. “You can enjoy what you’re doing but there’s no point in feeling established. We’ve some fantastic keepers. We’ve got Fraser (Forster). He’s let about one goal in this season! Ben (Foster) is making save after save with West Brom, and up until recently hadn’t conceded in four or five games. Greeny (Rob Green) is flying around at QPR making save upon save. There’s Jack (Butland) in the Under-21s. There’s an abundance of talent. It would be incredibly stupid of me to ever think my place was safe.”
Yet Hart could reach Peter Shilton’s mark of 125 caps. “I’ve not thought about it but I’d like to do it. I want to continue playing at the top and, for me, that’s here and with England. I will continue fighting for that as long as physically possible, and as long as people want me in those positions.
Peter Shilton earned 125 caps as England goalkeeper between 1970 and 1990 Photo: THE TELEGRAPH
“We are building something great with England – like England always seem to be doing. I’ve been a part of three championship teams (South Africa 2010, when he didn’t play, Euro 2012 and Brazil 2014) and going in with a genuine hope in all three and not done it. It felt dreadful coming back from Brazil.
“After that Uruguay game, it was hard. I’ve felt a lot of highs in football but that was deeply upsetting. Not because I thought I was going to be called a failure. It hurt because we invested everything. We did all the preparation. All the lads were on board. The management was on board. We did everything and we let ourselves down which is a horrible feeling. The dream just didn’t happen for us.”
He hoped that Roy Hodgson’s contract would be extended. “Yes, we love playing under Roy. He ultimately wants to improve all the time. That’s his thought process: ‘we can improve’. I know how cut up he was in Brazil. He felt the same as we did. He felt sick at what happened in the summer.
“But we go again. We have that desire to go again. There is so much hunger there. There’s a great new squad. There’s some really good kids coming through, a good age for the France championships (2016) and the Russian ones (2018). There’s no point me saying we are going to win it, because we’ve said that since 1966. It’s a long time to keep saying we are going to win. The only way we can make that relevant is to do it.” With that Hart returned to his coaching, to tackling a more important national concern.

