http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568808/s/43d5aecc/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0C114287790CNew0EYork0ECity0EFC0Ehave0Ebecome0Ethe0Eteam0EMajor0ELeague0ESoccer0Eloves0Eto0Ehate0Bhtml/story01.htm
New York City FC have become the team Major League Soccer loves to hate
By Bob Williams
3:45PM GMT 13 Mar 2015
Comments
For a team part-owned by the New York Yankees, it is quite fitting that New York City FC have become the franchise Major League Soccer loves to hate.
When things have gone wrong for the new MLS franchise - and boy have they - vast numbers of fans have taken great delight in their misfortune.
One only needs look at an innocent and innocuous attempt by the club to suggest some names for their fans.
On the club's 'City Voice' website, New York City came up with five suggestions for a nickname for their supporters, their "12th man": Roughnecks, Skyliners, New York's Loudest, 262 Crew and Blue Steel.

New York City FC face some home truths
MLS avoids strike - and self-destruction
NYCFC get off to running start
Is the MLS harming US Soccer?
It was the last of these that caused a huge amount of mirth on social media, considering its accidental reference to the Ben Stiller movie Zoolander.
More seriously, came the accusations that New York City were trying too hard to create a fan culture at the club, with some commentators describing the move as "embarrassing", "cringeworthy" and even "damaging".
So how did it come to this? How did New York City create so much mirth and scorn before a ball was even kicked in anger?
Much of it stems from the joint owners of the franchise: the New York Yankees and Manchester City.
As big and as popular as these teams are, there are many more who simply do not like them. And this being polite. Most baseball fans in the United States positively hate the Yankees.

New ball game: Patrick Vieira throws the first pitch for the Yankees. Photo: Reuters
From the outset, as far back as 2013, New York City were seen as an extension of their joint owners and with the signing of David Villa and Frank Lampard, many feared that the richest-backed club in the MLS would simply try to buy their way to glory, just as Manchester City and the Yankees have tried to do (with limited success).
But mild ill-feeling turned towards genuine loathing when it was decided by Manchester City's owners - and by extension New York City's - that Lampard would stay in the Premier League until the summer and delay his move the MLS until July.
It was then that New York City fans' group, The Third Rail, came into its own, with its damning statement on the farrago, that resulted in worldwide publicity.
"On behalf of the Third Rail, we would like to publicly denounce City Football Group's and Frank Lampard's decision to extend his loan to Manchester City until the end of the Premier League season," the statement read.
"Many fans, including our members, decided to support the team, committed to season tickets, and bought merchandise under the impression that Frank Lampard would be playing for New York City Football Club, not Manchester City.
"Many of those fans are rightly outraged by this decision, and we support any course of action they take to voice their discontent over this decision.
"Our support for our ownership group has been unwavering until now, but this we cannot support. We reject out of hand any suggestion that NYCFC is in any way secondary to Manchester City FC, regardless of the source, and are disappointed that City Football Group would give such an appearance.
"The Third Rail will forever act as a voice for the fans of New York City Football Club."
The message was clear: New Yorkers and New York City do not consider themselves playing second fiddle to anyone.
Quickly, the price of replica Lampard shirts tumbled.

Losing value: New York City slash the price of Frank Lampard jerseys
A crisis ensued in the MLS forcing commissioner Don Garber to react when it was revealed that Lampard had never signed for New York City and that an announcement that the midfielder was on loan at Manchester City was an out-and-out lie.
Garber told Sports Illustrated: "I could understand why [the New York City FC] fans are unhappy and I do believe [the club] will work hard to build back that trust. They've started that process already."
He added: "I think it's important to say this: [The owners of NYCFC] are very committed to MLS and committed to New York. ... They have made an unprecedented investment in MLS and New York City and they are going to continue to do so.
"This kind of decision is not something in my view that in any way says [NYCFC] is a farm team for Man City. I don't believe in all my dealings with them that they have led us to believe that's true."
Since then New York City have been in damage-limitation mode. A trip to Manchester as part of their off-season went some way to repair relations as did a series of football challenges between Villa and Sergio Aguero, which became online hits.

But deeper problems remain, the club do not have a stadium of their own and are still searching for a suitable location.
They will initially play at Yankee Stadium but only 14,000 season tickets have been sold for a club playing in a 33,444-seater arena.
Empty seats will not look good on television and it seems the fans, not least The Third Rail, will not enjoy themselves as much as they would like to after Yankee Stadium imposed a list of restrictions.
Prohibited items include flag poles, fixed banners, flags or banners above six feet, electronic megaphones and smoke, while all displays have to be approved by Yankee Stadium.
<noframe>Twitter: Brian Sciaretta - Looking at the Yankee stadium rules, it sounds like NYCFC games are going to resemble Wimbledon or PGA events. Jeeze</noframe>
Quite an achievement, then, for a club to alienate their own fans and an entire league before a ball has even been kicked in anger.
One thing is for certain though, once this anger dies down, which it will, New York City FC will be one of the main talking points of the MLS for years to come - especially when the likes of Xavi and Iker Casillas have been linked to the club - and in a league searching to make its mark internationally, this is no bad thing.
Follow Bob Williams on Twitter
