http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568808/s/44165be7/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cmanchester0Ecity0C114534870CJoe0EHart0Ebelieves0Ethat0EVincent0EKompany0Ewill0Ebenefit0Efrom0Ebeing0Edropped0Bhtml/story01.htm
Joe Hart believes that Vincent Kompany will benefit from being dropped
By Mark Ogden
10:30PM GMT 05 Mar 2015
Comments
Joe Hart claims Vincent Kompany will benefit from being dropped from the Manchester City team, after insisting that his own spell on the sidelines last season ultimately worked in his favour. The City manager, Manuel Pellegrini, has admitted he is yet to decide whether to restore Kompany to the team for the Premier League trip to Burnley on Saturday week, having left the 28-year-old out of his starting line-up for Wednesday’s 2-0 victory at home to Leicester.
Having endured a miserable run of form, culminating in his culpability for Liverpool’s opening goal in Sunday’s 2-1 defeat at Anfield, the City captain was dropped for the first time by Pellegrini for the encounter with Nigel Pearson's team.
Goalkeeper Hart, after spending over two months out of the team following his own loss of form last season, insisted that Kompany could use his omission to his advantage.
“That was how it went for me,” Hart said. “That was my path at that time. You have to make the best of it, and I like to think I have done that. Vinny appreciates, the same as we all do, that sometimes the manager will change the squad and there is no one destined to play every single game. I have learnt that lesson.
“Vinny is an unbelievable player, one of the best I have ever played with, and this was his night off. I’m sure he will be back in the team again with that captain’s armband, being one of the best defenders in world football.”
Pellegrini: Kompany may not get place back
Barton: Kompany's spent too long in the gym
How City can fix their big game blues
Pellegrini deserves to be judged in the summer
Kompany was one of five players dropped by Pellegrini in the wake of the Liverpool defeat, which left City facing an uphill battle to overhaul league leaders Chelsea in order to retain the title.
But with City keeping just nine clean sheets all season, Hart concedes that changes were inevitable and that the whole team must raise their standards again.
“It has not been good enough. We would all accept that – myself [sic.] included,” Hart said. “As a team, we have to accept that it’s not just the back four and the goalkeeper when we defend, we defend as a team.
“I don’t set out to be brutally honest, but I’d struggle to say things any other way. I’d always protect my team and protect my team-mates, but it’s pretty hard to not tell the truth when millions of people have just watched what happened.
“I have been here a long time and with the squad we have got, you have to appreciate that positions change an awful lot. We are used to it. It’s not a big deal if there are six changes. It’s not like we don’t know each other, we train together every day, and train as we play, so it’s no issue.”
