http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/669313/s/44760d52/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cengland0C114754430CManchester0EUniteds0EMichael0ECarrick0Eplays0Ehis0Eway0Eback0Einto0EEngland0Econtention0Bhtml/story01.htm
Manchester United's Michael Carrick plays his way back into England contention
By Matt Law
10:30PM GMT 16 Mar 2015
Comments
Michael Carrick may have played his way back into Roy Hodgson's England team for the first time since 2013 with his performance for Manchester United against Tottenham Hotspur.
Hodgson was in the Old Trafford stands to see Carrick put in a fine goalscoring display for United, as he considers how to replace Jack Wilshere. Arsenal manager Arsène Wenger has confirmed that Wilshere and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain will not be fit enough to be included in the England squad for this month's games against Lithuania and Italy that will be announced on Thursday.
Hodgson has been concerned by Carrick's injury record, but the 33-year-old underlined his fitness against Spurs and should have put the England manager's mind at rest. As well as scoring United's second goal with his head, Carrick set up the opener for Marouane Fellaini.
Carrick has not played for England since facing Poland in October 2013 and was left out of the World Cup squad. He was forced to pull out of Hodgson's squad for the Slovenia and Scotland games in November because of a groin injury.
Tottenham midfielder Ryan Mason could be included in Hodgson's squad, but the 23-year-old is not a natural holding midfielder to play on his own at the bottom of England's diamond. Spurs striker Harry Kane will be part of Hodgson's squad, while Aston Villa midfielder Fabian Delph is expected to step back in after missing the Slovenia and Scotland games with a shoulder injury.
How do you solve a problem like Di Maria?
Rooney fights back to crush Spurs
Wilshere out of Euro 2016 qualifier
Why Kane should NOT be in England squad
England play Lithuania at Wembley in a Euro 2016 qualifier on March 27, before flying to Turin for a friendly against Italy on March 31.

Italy manager Antonio Conte has promised that he will not take the England game lightly in front of the Turin fans who remember his time as Juventus manager, when the 45-year-old won three successive Serie A titles.
"I'll be playing at home, because I was adopted by Turin," said Conte. "For 24 years I've lived in this city, it's my home, regardless of where I work. To be back at Juventus Stadium is a great thrill, it's better to do it with the national team than with an opponent.
"We will honour every game in the Azzurri shirt, especially against England and in the city of Turin."
