West Ham step up bid for David Moyes after asking his old scout to lead transfer search
By Matt Law
3:37PM GMT 16 Mar 2015
Comments
West Ham are ready to step up their pursuit of David Moyes after putting his old Everton scout Tony Henry in charge of their summer recruitment policy.
Henry was appointed by West Ham co-owners David Sullivan and David Gold this season and, significantly, the ex-Everton man is understood to be heading the summer transfer plans instead of manager Sam Allardyce’s trusted scout Martin Glover.
Allardyce is yet to be offered a new contract by West Ham and is a candidate to take over at Sunderland at the end of the season, although he does not appear to fit the club's head coach model.
Ironically, West Ham face Sunderland next at Upton Park and that fixture, together with games against Leicester City and Stoke City, may go a long way to deciding the future of Allardyce.

As revealed by Telegraph Sport last month, West Ham have already started drawing up a list of potential candidates to replace Allardyce with Moyes the top choice ahead of Slaven Bilic. Rafa Benitez is also an intriguing option being considered.
Henry worked closely with Moyes at Everton, convincing the former Manchester United manager to sign defender John Stones from Barnsley in January 2013.
Sullivan and Gold have already asked Henry to identify potential signings for next season, although one of the top priorities is to sign right-back Carl Jenkinson on a permanent deal from Arsenal.
West Ham also want a new striker and retain an interest in Tottenham Hotspur’s Emmanuel Adebayor, who was blocked from moving to Upton Park in January by Spurs chairman Daniel Levy.
Target: West Ham retain an interest in Emmanuel Adebayor
Levy may be more willing to do a deal with the Hammers in the summer, when the impact of Adebayor will not be such a source of potential embarrassment to Tottenham, although the player’s £100,000-a-week wages will remain an issue.
It remains to be seen whether the influence of Henry can tempt Moyes back to England this summer, as the Scotsman has told friends that he is happy at Real Sociedad and grateful for the chance the club gave him to step back into management after being sacked by United.
Moyes was appointed Real Sociedad manager in November and signed an 18-month contract with the Spanish club. His reported wages of £1.5m-a-year are significantly less than the £3m-a-year Allardyce currently earns at West Ham.
Sullivan and Gold are determined not to be rushed into a decision over Allardyce, but one win in West Ham’s last 12 Premier League games has piled the pressure back on the former Bolton, Newcastle and Blackburn manager.
Pressure: Sam Allardyce is under pressure at Upton Park
West Ham have gone from mounting an unlikely challenge to qualify for the Champions League to slipping down to 10th place in the table and have been hit badly by injuries.
Allardyce played for a year at Sunderland and could be seen by the club as the man to either prevent their annual battle against relegation from the Premier League or try to win promotion back to the top flight at the first attempt.
Bilic may be easier to tempt to Upton Park than Moyes, but the former West Ham defender lacks experience of managing in the Premier League which is an important factor for Sullivan and Gold.
Contender: Slaven Bilic could be easier to tempt to West Ham than David Moyes
The 46-year-old has managed the Croatia national team and is now in charge of a Besitkas side who are top of the Turkish Super League and knocked Liverpool out of the Europa League.
Former Liverpool manager Benitez, who also took charge of Chelsea for six months, is expected to leave Napoli at the end of the season and has the type of experience that interests Sullivan and Gold if the Spaniard is not snapped up by a bigger club.

