http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/669313/s/4468754d/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cchelsea0C114732620CChelsea0E10ESouthampton0E10Efive0Ethings0Ewe0Elearnt0Bhtml/story01.htm
Chelsea 1 Southampton 1: five things we learnt
By Matt Law
3:32PM GMT 15 Mar 2015
Comments
Courtois is rock solid, but Chelsea are relying too heavily on him
Jose Mourinho resisted the temptation to change his defence after Chelsea’s Champions League elimination, but they were no less nervy. It may have been a midfielder, Nemanja Matic, who gave away a penalty, but Gary Cahill, captain John Terry, Branislav Ivanovic and Cesar Azpilicueta struggled to cope with the pace of Dusan Tadic and Sadio Mane. Courtois had to make three top saves in the first half alone, proving that he had not suffered any sort of PSG hangover. Mourinho wants to sign Raphael Varane from Real Madrid in the summer and the Chelsea manager may be best to play Kurt Zouma for the remainder of the season. Change is needed at the back.
Jose Mourinho struggles to get his message across against Southampton (REX)
Jose Mourinho will need a bigger senior squad next season
Chelsea and Mourinho consciously decided to operate with a smaller group of senior players than their rivals, partly to fulfil Financial Fair Play requirements and partly to build a close team spirit. The philosophy has worked up to now, but Chelsea’s players are clearly tiring as the season draws to a close. Striker Diego Costa, Cesc Fabregas, Willian and Oscar would all have benefitted from greater rotation and Mourinho has struggled to inject fresh impetus into performances from the substitutes’ bench over recent months. To sustain a Premier League title challenge and a Champions League push next season, Mourinho will need more options available to him.
Oscar has been accused of being a fairweather footballer (REUTERS)
Oscar could pay the price for fading again
Jose Mourinho joked that Oscar could not play in the bad weather last season, as the Brazilian went badly off the boil after Christmas. The Portuguese later claimed Oscar’s focus had been affected by the forthcoming World Cup. But the 23-year-old does not have a World Cup to blame this season and he should have acclimatised to the English weather by now. Whatever the reason, this is now the second successive season in which Oscar’s performances have dipped considerably after Christmas and he could yet find himself one of the biggest victims of a summer spend. A Paris Saint-Germain offer for Chelsea to cash in may prove tempting to Mourinho.
Koeman's management of Southampton has been hugely impressive (REX)
Ronaldo Koeman underlined his tactical nous
Top scorer Graziano Pelle was dropped to the substitutes’ bench, as Southampton manager Koeman preferred the pace and industry of Sadio Mane and Shane Long. The decision paid dividends, as Chelsea’s defenders struggled to cope with their movement. Mane won the penalty from which Dusan Tadic scored. Nemanja Matic was booked for bringing down Mane in the area and was lucky not to be shown a second yellow card for another foul on the Senegal forward early in the second half. Koeman has enjoyed an impressive first season as a Premier League manager, proving he can go toe-to-toe with the best.

Southampton can expect the rich clubs to come hunting again
Southampton’s achievements have been all the more remarkable this season after a summer in which the club lost head coach Mauricio Pochettino, Luke Shaw, Rickie Lambert and Adam Lallana. The vultures are already circling again, as Morgan Schneiderlin is a target for Arsenal and Tottenham Hotspur. The midfielder is not the only man who will attract bids. Dusan Tadic performed superbly at Stamford Bridge, out-performing Eden Hazard and showing that his pace and trickery would be a potent weapon for any team. Southampton will also face competition to sign central defender Toby Alderweireld permanently.
Southampton celebrate after Dusan Tadic equalised from the spot (GETTY IMAGES)
