http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/669313/s/442bcad3/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Ctottenham0Ehotspur0C114582120CTottenham0Emanager0EMauricio0EPochettino0Erevels0Ein0Efamily0Eaffair0Eas0EHarry0EKane0Econtinues0Eto0Eshine0Bhtml/story01.htm
Tottenham manager Mauricio Pochettino revels in family affair as Harry Kane continues to shine
By Matt Law, Loftus Road
12:52AM GMT 09 Mar 2015
Comments
Mauricio Pochettino headed straight for the away end to take a picture on his mobile phone when the final whistle confirmed another Harry Kane-inspired Tottenham victory.
At first glance, it appeared head coach Pochettino was getting carried away with a 2-1 win that puts his Spurs team firmly in contention for Champions League qualification.
But, as Pochettino revealed, the Argentine was simply getting a shot for the family album as his two sons, Sebastiano and Maurizio, and brother Javier were in the visiting crowd.
No doubt the trio joined in with the chants of “He’s one of our own” as Kane took his goals tally for the season to 26 with a double in front of England manager Roy Hodgson.
“My family were in the stands, my sons and brother,” said Pochettino.
Why Kane simply must start for England
Kane strikes twice to lift England bid
QPR v Tottenham: as it happened
“They had the chance to go to the executive box, but they prefer to sing the songs with the fans.
“I took the picture as a souvenir. It was a fantastic moment for me and for them. It was the first time I’ve done it in my career.”
Pochettino refused to reveal who the favourite Tottenham players are of his sons and brother, only saying: “Maybe it’s difficult for you to guess.”
It is certainly not hard to guess who the darling of the majority of the Spurs faithful is, as Kane continues to maintain his goalscoring form.
With every goal the 21-year-old scores, another record is equalled or bettered. His header that opened the scoring meant Kane became only the fourth player in Premier League history to score in six successive away games after Didier Drogba, Robin van Persie and Daniel Sturridge.
Golden spell: Harry Kane is in exceptional form
The second goal that came in the 68th minute meant Kane took over from QPR striker Charlie Austin as the top scoring Englishman in the league and equalled Gareth Bale’s 2012/13 total in all competitions.
Pochettino leaves the hype around Kane to others, simply saying: “He is a good player, it’s normal that he scores two goals and gets the headlines.” But Kane is not the only Englishman currently impressing.
Ryan Mason played the through ball that set Kane away for his second goal and the midfielder produced another commanding performance.
“This is Ryan’s first full season, he is 23-years-old, but he has potential to improve more and, like Harry, he is progressing in a very good way,” said Pochettino. “He has shown a lot of maturity and we are very happy.”
Andros Townsend is regaining his best form and Nabil Bentaleb is another academy graduate who has been embraced by the Spurs fans.
“I think the connection is special now,” Pochettino. “At the beginning it was different, now it’s a reality and the connection between the team and the supporters is fantastic.
“The results make the supporters feel very proud of the team.”
Having lost the Capital One Cup final against Chelsea, Tottenham have now recorded back-to-back wins that have lifted them to sixth, four points behind third-placed rivals, Arsenal.
“I think we’ve proved the team has a strong mentality,” said Pochettino. “In a mental state, we are much better now. The team has improved.”
Spurs travel to Manchester United next, but have a favourable run-in and can now concentrate solely on trying to secure a top-four place after going out of the Europa League.
“You never know who has the edge,” said Pochettino. “We’ve played 47 games, more than Arsenal, Manchester United, and Liverpool.”
“But we need to keep working. We’ve got 10 games left, but the next game is always the most important. We need to prepare and the team is very realistic about that. We need to work very hard to prepare if we are going to get the three points.
“The most important thing I get from the team is that they believe in our way of doing things.”
Sandro scored the goal that gave QPR some hope against his former club Tottenham, but Chris Ramsey’s side, who had two loud penalty appeals turned down, could not find an equaliser and remain in the relegation zone.
Defender Steven Caulker said: “We don’t want to be unlucky. You can’t get through a season being unlucky. We have to hit the back of the net and stop the ball hitting the back of ours. We have got to get results.”
