http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/669313/s/44208823/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Carsenal0C1145620A0A0CArsenal0Enews0EPer0EMertesackers0Efuture0Eis0Ein0Edoubt0Bhtml/story01.htm
Arsenal news: Per Mertesacker's future is in doubt
By Matt Law
9:53PM GMT 06 Mar 2015
Comments
Per Mertesacker is playing for his future at Arsenal with manager Arsène Wenger still weighing up an end-of-season move for another defender.
The former Germany centre-back paid the price for a terrible Champions League performance against Monaco by being dropped for the Premier League victory over Everton.
Mertesacker was restored to the starting line-up for the win over Queens Park Rangers in midweek and will keep his place for Monday night’s FA Cup quarter final against Manchester United after Gabriel Paulista suffered a hamstring injury that will keep him out for up to three weeks.
Gabriel was signed for £11.2 million from Villarreal in January, but Wenger is still looking at potential recruits in central defence.
Mertesacker has struggled to produce his best form this season after returning from winning the World Cup with Germany in Brazil. He has also suffered from constant changes in personnel across Arsenal’s back four and goalkeeper this season. The 30-year-old now needs to convince Wenger that he does not need further defensive reinforcements at the end of the season or faces being squeezed out at the Emirates.
'I have no idea where my winners medals are'
Wenger: Build walls between dug-outs
Welbeck is no better off at Arsenal than United
'Lazy' Ozil runs more than any Arsenal player
With Laurent Koscielny, Gabriel and Calum Chambers already rivalling Mertesacker for places in Wenger’s first-choice central defensive pairing, the arrival of another defender could see the vice-captain return to his native Germany.
Mertesacker joined Arsenal for £8 million from Werder Bremen in 2011 and there would be no shortage of German clubs interested in signing him if he cannot convince Wenger he can regain his best form.
Another of Arsenal’s Germans, Mesut Özil, has received the backing of Wenger despite being told he still has a point to prove ahead of the trip to Old Trafford.
Özil has been heavily criticised since joining Arsenal for a club record £42.5 million, with former United midfielder Paul Scholes accusing him of taking the “easy option” by moving to the Emirates and “going through the motions” for the Gunners.
Per Mertesacker was dreadful in the defeat by Monaco (GETTY IMAGES)
In response, Wenger said: “I think a player like Paul Scholes would have loved to play with Mesut Özil. I believe about Özil it’s a wrong statement. He works very hard and he’s a great player.” Asked if Özil still has a point to prove, Wenger added: “Yes and he knows that. We are all in a job where in every single game we have to prove a point.
“I believe he has the quality, he puts a lot of effort in for the team and he works much harder than his style shows. You can be cheated a little by his style of play, because he is fluent, easy, subtle and he does not look like he puts the effort in, but he does.”
Meanwhile, Wenger, who used to enjoy running battles with former United manager Sir Alex Ferguson, has joked that the only way to stop Premier League managers clashing on the touchline would be to build a wall between them.
Arsene Wenger singled out midfielder Mesut Ozil for praise (GETTY IMAGES)
The behaviour of managers has once again come under the spotlight after Sunderland manager Gus Poyet was sent to the stands and Hull City’s Steve Bruce had to be restrained by the fourth official.
Poyet has been charged by the Football Association with improper conduct, while Bruce has been reminded of his responsibilities in writing.
Wenger himself was involved in a touchline spat this season, when he shoved Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho during Arsenal’s defeat at Stamford Bridge in October.
“Ideally, you want us to behave in a perfect way so maybe you’ll have to build a wall between the two dugouts!” said Wenger. “The bigger the distance, the better it is. In the modern stadium it is much better.
“At the Emirates, for example, we have had zero incidents because we are far apart from each other. What happens when the dugouts are very close is that everyone speaks to the fourth official and then it becomes controversial very quickly. The incidents can explode in physical controversy. Overall, the distance between the two dugouts is a very important part of the peace.”
Did you know Telegraph Sport has an ?

