http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/669313/s/441d4c42/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Ctottenham0Ehotspur0C114549650CTottenham0Econsider0Emove0Efor0ESouthamptons0EToby0EAlderweireld0Bhtml/story01.htm
Tottenham consider move for Southampton's Toby Alderweireld
By Matt Law, Football News Correspondent
3:24PM GMT 06 Mar 2015
Comments
Tottenham Hotspur are ready to join the race to sign central defender Toby Alderweireld after missing out on Winston Reid.
Spurs were hopeful of landing Reid on a free transfer at the end of the season, but West Ham convinced the Kiwi to stay at Upton Park by handing him an incredible six-and-a-half-year new contract.
The deal has left Tottenham considering their options for the summer and one of those is Alderweireld, who has spent the season on loan at head coach Mauricio Pochettino’s former club Southampton.
Tottenham’s head of recruitment and analysis Paul Mitchell was instrumental in taking Alderweireld on loan to Southampton from Atletico Madrid in his previous role with the Saints and knows all about the 26-year-old Belgian.
Mitchell will also be well aware that while Southampton have a £6.8million option to buy Alderweireld at the end of the season, Atletico can buy out that clause for £1.5m and then sell to the highest bidder.
Why Kane should NOT be in England squad
Swansea star Gomis recovering after collapse
Gomis collapse overshadows Spurs win
Spurs express concern over Kane burnout
That has already alerted Manchester City and United to the potential availability of Alderweireld, and Tottenham are the latest Premier League club to have expressed an interest.
Atletico would demand around £10m for Alderweireld to make it worth their while to buy out his Southampton clause, but Spurs may be prepared to pay that for a player who has helped Southampton mount an unlikely challenge for a Champions League place.
Tottenham will attempt to offload defenders Younes Kaboul and Vlad Chiriches in the summer, and ideally want a right-sided central defender to compete with Eric Dier and Federico Fazio to partner Jan Vertonghen.
Alderweireld already knows Vertonghen well, having played with him for Ajax and for the Belgium national team.
Tottenham midfielder Nabil Bentaleb is poised to sign a new long-term contract that will double his wages to around £20,000-a-week.
