http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568342/s/44ab42de/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cmanchester0Eunited0C114884340CDavid0EMoyes0Esays0EPremier0ELeague0Eis0Ethe0Epoorest0Efor0Elong0Elong0Etime0Bhtml/story01.htm
David Moyes says Premier League is the poorest for 'long, long time'
By Telegraph Sport, and PA
1:55PM GMT 22 Mar 2015
Comments
David Moyes, the former Everton and Manchester United manager, believes failure in Europe has exposed declining standards in the Barclays Premier League.
Moyes is manager of Spanish side Real Sociedad, a job he took up in November.
He has been linked with a return to England with West Ham, where Sam Allardyce remains in charge.
While Spanish sides have flourished in Europe this season their Premier League counterparts have struggled, with none left in the Champions League or Europa League after Arsenal, Manchester City, Chelsea and Everton bowed out this month.
•Gary Neville: Why English teams are struggling in Europe
•Follow Liverpool v Manchester United live here
Moyes said on BBC Radio Five Live's Sportsweek programme: "It's not been too long ago where we were looked at as probably having the best teams, and it does change.
Down and out: PSG defender David Luiz celebrates Chelsea's exit from the Champions League
"Chelsea, Manchester City, Arsenal are all exceptional teams in their own right and they'll be disappointed they went out, and maybe on another day they'd have gone through.
"It's just becoming a wee bit of a habit that we're not getting our teams quite as close to the final as we had in the past.
"I think this year you'd have to say it's probably the poorest Premier League I've seen in a long, long time.
"Maybe we do go over the top and recently we have maybe talked up the Premier League more than what it's actually been. There's other leagues which are certainly now comparable."
Moyes expects to return to the Premier League, but not in the near future.
"I think someday I will," he said. "I've left when I didn't expect to be leaving but what I've taken on is a great job.
"I love working in Spain."
