http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568342/s/446b69b3/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cmanchester0Eunited0C114741490CChris0ESmalling0Eand0EPhil0EJones0Ecan0Ebe0EManchester0EUniteds0Elong0Eterm0Ecentre0Ebacks0Bhtml/story01.htm
Chris Smalling and Phil Jones can be Manchester United's long-term centre-backs
By Alan Smith
12:40AM GMT 16 Mar 2015
Comments
It was supposed to be the future, the partnership to replace Nemanja Vidic and Rio Ferdinand, the axis that would form the heart of Manchester United’s defence for years to come.
After buying him, Sir Alex Ferguson went so far as to hail Phil Jones as a future United captain, while Chris Smalling’s rapid rise from non-league football to Old Trafford confirmed his reputation as a very promising talent.
Not only that, Jones and Smalling were seen as the long-term answer for England after impersonating Bobby Moore and Franz Beckenbauer in the 2011 Under 21 tournament in Denmark. It was all mapped out for two of the brightest young prospects around.
A few years on, we all know that it hasn’t quite panned out that way. Both have had their moments for sure, but both have also suffered.
Jones has been used at full-back and in midfield as well as in his natural position, which hasn’t helped, while Smalling’s outings have often been blighted by nerves and a certain amount of clumsiness.
Most of all, though, a litany of injuries have held both of them back, denying any chance of building a proper understanding.

But with Jonny Evans suspended for the visit of Tottenham, they were paired together on Sunday for the first time this season in a back four and for, incredibly, only the fourth time ever in the Premier League.
That gives you an indication of the issues involved, not to mention the other permutations used by Louis van Gaal in his search for a solid platform.
Yet the first few minutes here didn’t look too promising, not when Jones drilled a back pass towards David de Gea that very nearly ended up in the back of the net.
But as Old Trafford groaned, fearing another shaky display, United proceeded to take the bull by the horns and play with the purpose and intensity of years gone by.
Doing battle: Phil Jones wins the ball off Harry Kane
That undoubtedly helped the duo, as Harry Kane’s threat was severely impaired by a total lack of service or support. For the first 45 minutes, in fact, they had very little to do, save the odd dash to mop up a long ball.
Nevertheless, there was a pleasing tempo to their game, with some sharp, early passes zipping into midfield in a way that has been lacking from United defenders this season.
The second half might have created a little more work, but nothing to unduly trouble a pair growing in confidence.
Up in the stand, Roy Hodgson had probably turned up, principally at least, to see how Kane fared on this stage.
Did you know Telegraph Sport has a ?

In the event, the England manager may have walked away at the end with other thoughts on his mind as he starts to prepare for the upcoming visit of Lithuania.
For the time being, though, both players will be more concerned with a very difficult day job – retaining the faith of a demanding club manager.
Van Gaal might well have plans to buy more defenders this summer. Even if he doesn’t, the Dutchman may not regard the pairing as being quite good enough.
But even Van Gaal has been known to change his mind. If they can only stay fit, Jones, 23, and Smalling, 25, look in a good position to argue their case, with a trip to Anfield next on the list.
Those early predictions of success should not be dismissed just yet.
