http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568342/s/4469b9d2/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cmanchester0Eunited0C114732950CManchester0EUnited0E30ETottenham0EHotspur0E0A0Efive0Ethings0Ewe0Elearnt0Bhtml/story01.htm
Manchester United 3 Tottenham Hotspur 0: five things we learnt
By Mark Ogden, at Old Trafford
6:04PM GMT 15 Mar 2015
Comments
Dier and Walker the weak links in Spurs' back four
Eric Dier always looked set for a bad day at the office from the moment he was outpaced by Marouane Fellaini for Manchester United’s first goal at Old Trafford.
Fellaini has his strengths, but pace is not one of them, so with Dier also being dominated in the air by the Belgian, it did not bode well for Tottenham Hotspur.
But with Kyle Walker at right-back also struggling to cope with Ashley Young, the right half of the Spurs back four was constantly under pressure and targeted by United.

Marouane Fellaini beats Eric Dier to score Manchester United's first (Getty Images)
When Wayne Rooney burst through to score United’s third, it was Dier who failed to stop his run into the penalty area.
Blind can solve United's left-back problems
Injuries to Luke Shaw and Marcos Rojo forced Louis van Gaal to deploy Daley Blind at left-back, but the change made United better.
Blind played at left-back for Holland at the World Cup and impressed and, while he lacks the pace which could compromise him against quicker opponents, his experience of the role and calmness in possession suggested he could keep the position long-term.

Shaw’s injuries are a recurring issue, while Rojo is best deployed at centre-half, but Blind’s removal from central midfield also enables United to play with more attacking ambition.
So injuries may just have given Van Gaal the solution to a season-long problem.

Daley Blind excelled at left-back (Getty Images)
Rooney is a centre-forward: case closed
It was inevitable that Wayne ‘The Croxteth Kid’ Rooney would play a central for United on the day he woke to headlines revealing his kitchen boxing bout with Stoke defender Phil Bardsley and he duly delivered by scoring the third goal.
But aside from the boxing controversy, and whether he was knocked out or not by Bardsley’s left jab, what is no longer in question is whether Rooney is better deployed up front or in midfield.
Rooney is a striker and this performance underlined that reality once and for all, with the 29-year-old producing his best display of the season.
And just to further banish the question marks, Rooney took his tally to six goals in six games since returning to a forward role.

The Croxteth Kid (Rex)
What a difference a year makes
On the corresponding weekend last season, United were humiliated in a 3-0 Old Trafford defeat by Liverpool which triggered the nosedive that cost David Moyes his job.
It was an abject performance which highlighted the lack of confidence and belief within the squad and the sense of a team going nowhere.
Did you know Telegraph Sport has a ?

But while United under Louis van Gaal are by no means the finished article, with Champions League qualification still uncertain, this performance was a world apart from the Liverpool defeat 364 days ago.
When United go to Anfield next Sunday, they can take another giant step towards securing their top four goal if they repeat this performance.

It was 364 days ago today - David Moyes during Liverpool's 3-0 victory (EPA)
Hodgson watched Kane but left thinking about Smalling
England manager Roy Hodgson names his squad later this week for the forthcoming games against Lithuania and Italy and Spurs forward Harry Kane would have been top of his list as he arrived at Old Trafford.
But while Kane endured a miserable afternoon in which he barely touched the ball, his marker Chris Smalling emerged having enhanced his reputation immeasurably with a confident defensive display.

Chris Smalling kept Harry Kane quiet (Action Images)
Phil Jones alongside Smalling also impressed and, with Wayne Rooney and Michael Carrick also catching the eye, Hodgson will have ticked every Englishman wearing red.
The less said about Tottenham’s Englishmen, the better.
