http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568342/s/4464de73/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cmanchester0Eunited0C114724550CMan0EUtd0Enews0ELouis0Evan0EGaal0Eexpects0EAngel0EDi0EMaria0Eto0Estay0Bhtml/story01.htm
Man Utd news: Louis van Gaal expects Angel Di Maria to stay
By Jason Burt
10:30PM GMT 14 Mar 2015
Comments
Louis Van Gaal has insisted that he expects record-signing Angel Di Maria to remain at Manchester United next season - but would not stand in his way if he wanted to leave on compassionate grounds.
The United manager said, however, that there would have to be a “commercial interest” in any deal that was struck given Di Maria cost £59.7million when he was signed from Real Madrid.
The Argentinean international has struggled for form and adapting to life in this country especially after an attempted burglary on his home which has unsettled his wife. It has led to suggestions that he is unhappy and might move on.
Van Gaal refuted this but explained that he would take a personal approach if Di Maria wanted to leave. “As a manager, you can never say no or yes because the player at the end shall always decide but I don’t think he shall move,” he said. "Despite his incident with his wife at home, he is very pleased to be here at Manchester United.”

Asked whether he would let Di Maria go if he wanted to go for compassionate reasons Van Gaal added: “I’m always like that. When you see my history – that’s part of my philosophy. A player is not just a man who kicks the ball from A to B. Also, his environment is influencing him.
• In pics: Man Utd players nearing the exit door • Van Gaal has 'disrespected' Falcao and Giggs • Have any United players improved under Van Gaal?
“So, I shall always be open for that conversation but I know also the commercial interests of the club and we have to respect that. You cannot give a lot of money for a player and then next season put him out of your selection.
“I think that he shall stay because what I have seen in his reaction, after the defeat and after his red card (against Arsenal in the FA Cup last Monday), is very good and I like his attitude.”
Approval: Louis van Gaal wants to keep Angel Di Maria at Manchester United
Van Gaal said that he, personally, would quit United if he felt the “chemistry between the players and the manager is not good enough”. When that happens at a club, he said, “then I go” citing an example earlier in his career when he was coach of AZ Alkmaar and he threatened to resign only to be persuaded by the players to stay.
“It’s not a question, I can go for myself also,” Van Gaal said. “But when I see this chemistry (at United) between myself and my players, then I don’t have any doubts. We have to continue in our process. Of course, we have disappointing moments but we can survive and we have confidence to qualify ourselves for the Champions League.”
With United at home to Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday Van Gaal knows that finishing in the top four – and qualifying for the Champions League - is a minimum requirement.
The 63-year-old Dutchman – who signed a three-year contract last summer – claimed that the United owners were “pleased” with the way he has managed the club.

Earlier this season United’s executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward stated that the target was finishing in the top three – thereby avoiding the final qualification round to get into the Champions League group stages. Not being in the competition would have a financial impact on United.
“I don’t think that I’m here to think about the financial consequences - that is Ed Woodward,” Van Gaal said. “I’m here to manage the professional football department of Manchester United and I’m here because of my qualities and my philosophy.
“I think they (the Glazers) are pleased with my way of managing the club. I am not thinking of the consequences if I am not in fourth or third. It is very bad for the club but why do we have to speak about things that have not happened yet. We are longer in the top four than Arsenal, I’m sorry but it is true.”
