http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568342/s/44634443/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Ctottenham0Ehotspur0C114725160CHarry0EKane0Eshows0Eclubs0Eshould0Enot0Ediscard0Eplayers0Etoo0Eearly0Bhtml/story01.htm
Harry Kane shows clubs should not discard players too early
By Henry Winter
4:46PM GMT 14 Mar 2015
Comments
Many magic numbers are being thrown around about Harry Kane, adding up to why the Tottenham Hotspur striker is being feted as such a strong candidate for the players’ Player of the Year and the writers’ Footballer of the Year.
Numbers like four. Kane has just become only the fourth man to win back-to-back Premier League Player of the Month awards, joining such illustrious names as Robbie Fowler, Dennis Bergkamp and Cristiano Ronaldo.
Or 16. Used only as a substitute in the Premier League until November, Kane’s first league goal of the term arrived on Nov 2 (against Aston Villa) and he has since being ripping defences to shreds, taking his current league tally to 16 as he marches into Old Trafford on Sunday.


Or 26. Include his seven Europa League goals and three from the Capital One Cup and his season’s total is an impressive 26 from 41 games.
With 10 fixtures remaining, Kane has already matched the figure that helped bring Gareth Bale joint PFA and FWA honours before heading to Real Madrid in 2013. Kane could also become the first Spurs player to get into the 30s since Gary Lineker's 35 in 1991-92.
Or 21. Kane is still young, still eligible for Gareth Southgate’s England juniors. The time will come in Kane’s nascent career when the goal rush slows, when injury could intervene, and when opposing managers plot more ruthlessly how to stifle Tottenham's greatest threat.
Facing Chelsea in the Capital One Cup final, Kane found that Jose Mourinho deployed Kurt Zouma to cut the supply-line usually flowing from Christian Eriksen.
Up for the challenge: Harry Kane vies with Kurt Zouma in the Capital One Cup final
The reason why genuine optimism can be so confidently expressed in Kane’s future came in his response to that Wembley frustration.
Within three days, Kane was taking on Swansea at the Lane and, although he did not enjoy his most fruitful evening, he still worked Garry Monk’s defence, having two shots blocked, one saved by Lukasz Fabianski and two headers sent narrowly wide.
Three days later, Kane was back in the scoring routine, vanquishing QPR at Loftus Road. Or two: the number of goals he put past Robert Green.
Bouncing back: Kane responded to cup final disappointment with two goals against QPR
Even at only 21, Kane is a fine role model for youngsters aspiring to reach the top, remembering the old mantra that aptitude is nothing without attitude. Ravel Morrison take note. Kane’s levels of dedication have always been excellent.
There has been plenty of talk of Kane the Premier League defence-slayer being forged and sharpened by his experiences on loan in the Football League, making him hungrier, yet Spurs fans have long noted that desire.
Take a scroll back through the Harry Kane thread on one of the best fans’ forums on life at the Lane, Shelfsidespurs, dating back to Sep 12, 2010, when they began debating his first-team potential.
Seventeen. He was only just eligible for a driving licence - by seven weeks - and yet the supporters were singing his praises, posting comments like “the kid is quality” and “a leader”.
Woven through the discussion was the constant reminder that Kane had much to learn, and whether “he can play as a lone striker” rather than as in the Under-18s when he was often working off Kudus Oyenuga, the centre-forward currently at Cowdenbeath.
All who watched Kane back then, whether fans or coaches, remarked on his attitude.
“He’s a lovely lad, a terrific young player with a great work ethic and one who will keep on improving,’’ said Alex Inglethorpe, the then coach of Spurs Under-18s, when Kane was voted Scholar of the Year for the 2010-11 season.
That “great work ethic” is the engine driving Kane’s career. He has the right focus, the right discipline.
Or three. Of the many numbers increasingly associated with Kane is three, the amount of bookings in his 41 appearances this season. Such maturity is remarkable, a compliment to his equable temperament and refusal to be wound up by the physicality of centre-halves like Martin Skrtel or John Terry.
Analysis of those three moments when he earned a referee’s ire actually underlines further that Kane possesses the character to reach for the stars. Kane’s history of cautions is not a cautionary tale.
• Telegraph writers on who should be player of the year • Alan Smith: How does Harry Kane compare to his England rivals • Jason Burt: Why Harry Kane should not be in the England squad
His first booking came in the 5-3 win over Chelsea, being punished for dissent in kicking the ball away in anger after Terry scored. It was late on, the game was won, but Spurs fans will reflect admiringly on a home-grown player’s hatred of giving a goal away.
Kane’s second was the worst offence, a nasty foul on Olivier Giroud, catching the Arsenal forward on the ankle at the Lane. His third came at Anfield for remonstrating with the prostrate Mamadou Sakho, believing the Liverpool centre-half was time-wasting. Again, Kane’s hunger to win shaped this minor misdemeanour.
Disciplined and determined, Kane’s strength of mind sees him scoring in pressurised situations, against Chelsea, Arsenal and Liverpool, being a leader through deed as well as pithy word, and having the confidence to take a late penalty to draw with West Ham.
He is versatile, drifting wide, playing with his back to goal, working the channels, powerful aerially, linking with Eriksen. Kane’s goal haul is a veritable variety act, the low shot and towering header against Arsenal highlighting his range.
He is earning plenty of praise with even Roy Hodgson eulogising that Kane “combines everything you are looking for in a centre-forward”.
Not yet. Deficiencies exist and are being addressed, such as improving his volleying. Again that attitude prevails, that desire to develop persists.
Shutout: Harry Kane has won four player of the month trophies in a row
Kane also needs to work on the timing of his runs; he has been getting caught offside too often, five times in that success over Arsenal.
Nobody would claim that it was burning pace triggering the flags. Kane is not fast, a question-mark placed against him privately by England staff as he made his way up the age-group ladder.
It’s more down to experience, to dealing with more sophisticated defences. Again, Kane’s hunger for self-improvement will see him practice how to avoid offside traps.
Interestingly against QPR, he timed his run immaculately to reach Ryan Mason’s ball. Kane may not be quick but he’s a quick learner. Hodgson was watching that day.
It is Kane’s drive, as well as his technical strengths, that deserves to be rewarded when Hodgson announces at Wembley on Thursday his squad for the forthcoming internationals against Lithuania and Italy.
The sensible route would be to give Kane a taste of the senior world, knowing he will not get carried away by the hype and also that his rate of development demands his presence in the squad for the European Championships.
Harry Hotspur should then focus for the rest of the season on Spurs and then England Under-21s. He wants to play in that tournament in the Czech Republic.
It will help familiarise him with the different rhythms of international football, and how to deal with tournament down-time, the perennial problem with easily-bored English players.
Spurs are right to be concerned about burn-out, which is why he should not make the long haul to Australia for a friendly against Sydney FC on May 30 whatever the commercial imperatives. The sight of a smiling Kane holding up a shirt saying “Sydney 15” at Enfield was worrying.
Big decision: Roy Hodgson has to decide whether to call up Harry Kane
When the Premier League concludes on May 24, Kane should really miss Sydney and the June internationals with the Republic of Ireland and Slovenia before reporting for duty with Southgate’s Under-21s.
Hodgson, Pochettino, Southgate and the FA’s technical director, Dan Ashworth, really need a meeting early this week to plan Kane’s international journey.
For all the inevitable club-v-country tensions, this is a situation that should be celebrated. Kane’s emergence is a joyous one.
A boon for Spurs and England, Kane’s prominence is also a reminder to all clubs that players develop at different rates but to keep faith and not discard them too early, especially if they boast the application levels of Spurs’ No18.
