http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/571333/s/28b2a5cc/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Ccycling0C98790A70A0CTyler0EHamilton0Eto0Etell0Ecourt0Ein0EEufemiano0EFuentes0Etrial0Ehow0Eblood0Edoping0Eput0Ehis0Elife0Eat0Erisk0Bhtml/story01.htm
Tyler Hamilton to tell court in Eufemiano Fuentes trial how blood doping put his life at risk
By Jacquelin Magnay
10:47PM GMT 18 Feb 2013
Comments
The American will be the highest profile cyclist to give evidence at the trial in Madrid of Fuentes, who is accused of endangering the public health by administering banned substances and blood transfusions to an array of cyclists and other sportsmen.
Hamilton, code-named 41-42 by Fuentes – the last four digits of his best friend Jeff Buell, from his hometown of Marblehead, Massachusetts – had believed he was being reinfused with his own blood by Fuentes for a period of three years, which is an illegal but undetectable doping practice.
However, Hamilton tested positive to “mixed blood cell population” or receiving someone else’s blood, just weeks after winning cycling's road time trial at the 2004 Athens Olympics and a month after suffering a severe reaction to a blood reinfusion.
Team-mates of Hamilton, including the German cyclist Jörg Jaksche, have already told the court that Hamilton believed he was going to die in 2004 when he suffered a feverish reaction and urinated blood after having blood reinjected during the Tour de France.
Hamilton, who will give evidence via video link, is expected to elaborate on the circumstances of that reinfusion in testimony against Fuentes, who faces a possible two years in prison if convicted of administering drugs in an unsafe manner.
WorldTour to include 19 teams
Former Team Sky doctor faces doping probe
Trott and Kenny eye Minsk glory
Froome wins Tour of Oman
Dopers 'risk death and HIV' by injecting blood
Hayward: courtroom sporting arena
At the time, providing drugs and transfusions to athletes was not a criminal offence in Spain and Fuentes has pleaded not guilty to endangering the public health.
Hamilton has already given six hours of testimony to the US Federal authorities about his drug taking in sport, which began before Fuentes with another disgraced Spanish doctor, Luis García del Moral. Hamilton even boarded a private jet with Lance Armstrong to fly to Valencia to see Del Moral to have blood withdrawn before the 2000 Tour de France.
Hamilton has told how he was introduced to Fuentes by the CSC team director, the Dane Bjarne Riis, and he had agreed to a four-year blood doping and drugs programme with Fuentes.
Meanwhile, the Spanish newspaper El País says Spanish world champion steeplechase runner Marta Domínguez has been linked to Fuentes once again after previously being acquitted of three criminal charges linked to a separate drugs raid.
In documents linked to the Fuentes trial and seen by the newspaper, Domínguez is listed by Fuentes as starting treatment in December 1997.
In papers seized from a file belonging to Fuentes a dot is shown surrounded by a red circle, identified in court as a code representing EPO. El País also says documents show her code name being that of her dog, a practice Fuentes used with Jaksche and the Italian cyclist Ivan Basso.
