International Tennis Federation to increase testing on players linked to Dr Luis García del Moral
By Jacquelin Magnay
10:00PM GMT 18 Feb 2013
Comments
Dr Luis García del Moral, who was banned by US anti-doping officials when they published their evidence against Armstrong and his US Postal team last year, is based in Valencia and had a 15-year association with tennis players from the nearby TenisVal Academy.
The ITF was so concerned about Del Moral’s alleged links to tennis players that it sent a message to all tennis professionals telling them not to work with him. But Telegraph Sport understands anti-doping bodies remain concerned that some players may be continuing to work with Del Moral despite the warning and have therefore increased the level of testing undergone by those under suspicion.
In a further measure, former and current tennis players from the TenisVal Academy have been questioned by the ITF over their work with Del Moral in the past. All those who admitted to having done so insisted they saw Del Moral only for testing and analysis, and maintain they have not engaged in any blood doping or illegal drug practices.
The US Anti-Doping Agency (Usada) evidence claimed Del Moral was actively promoting drug use in the US Postal team from 1999 to 2003. Another cyclist, Floyd Landis, said he paid the doctor US$10,000 directly to conduct blood transfusions.
Usada said: “Numerous riders will testify that Dr Del Moral gave to them, encouraged them to use and/or assisted them in using doping products and/or prohibited methods.’’
Former Team Sky doctor faces doping probe
Fifa to step up drug tests in 2014
Dopers 'risk death and HIV' by injecting blood
Strycova banned after test failure
Hayward: courtroom sporting arena
Cyclist Manzano 'given horse and dog medicine'
Del Moral had previously claimed via a website which has since been shut down that he also worked with Valencia and Barcelona football teams. Barcelona told Telegraph Sport last year they had no record of him being on their payroll, while Valencia declined to comment.
In the note to players the ITF warned of taking care when considering who to seek treatment, guidance and advice from in the future, highlighting that Del Moral had trafficked EPO, blood transfusions, testosterone, human growth hormone, corticosteroids and masking agents and administered those drugs to professional cyclists.
The ITF says it has been satisfied that the tennis players linked with Del Moral were not engaging in blood doping.
But authorities have been concerned that some players may still be associating with Del Moral. Under current World Anti Doping rules the doctor cannot be given any official status at any sports event around the world but there are no direct bans preventing him from continuing to see players.

