http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/571333/s/2886498e/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Cdrugsinsport0C98677270CSpanish0Ecyclist0EJesus0EManzano0Esays0Ehe0Ewas0Egiven0Edog0Ecattle0Eand0Ehorse0Emedicines0Eby0EEufemiano0EFuentes0Bhtml/story01.htm
Spanish cyclist Jesus Manzano says he was given dog, cattle and horse medicines by Eufemiano Fuentes
By Jacquelin Magnay
9:15PM GMT 13 Feb 2013
Comments
The eagerly awaited evidence from the case’s major whistleblower was the most explosive heard so far in Fuentes’ trial in Madrid.
The Spanish doctor is accused of endangering public health by leading a vast doping ring involving banned substances and blood transfusions. The racket involved dozens of suspects in cycling and possibly other sports.
Manzano told the court that Fuentes would pack his new Porsche with blood bags to infuse cyclists at hotels and to deliver banned drugs and blood for reinfusion throughout some races. Manzano said the blood was packed into a tetrabrick container and hidden in casks of wine.
He added that, at one point, cyclists had to contribute towards the cost of a “carrier pigeon”, whom he identified as the late Alberto Leon, a team official.
Fuentes, his sister Yolanda and three others have been charged with endangering public health and could be jailed for two years if convicted. They have pleaded not guilty.
Verbruggen makes written plea to Rogge and IOC
Wada 'heartened' by Fuentes trial
Heart attack kills Fuentes witness
UCI warned over truth commission
WADA calls on football to act
Six rugby league clubs named in doping scandal
Manzano said Fuentes had treated him with the banned blood booster erythropoietin (EPO) in 2000, 2001 and 2003 when he was with the Spanish team Kelme. Manzano testified that all cyclists in the Kelme team, except for Juan Miguel Cuenca, were involved in doping.
He also implicated two others facing trial, Kelme team manager Vicente Belda and trainer Jose Ignacio Labarta in the doping conspiracy. “The medical planning was done by Eufemiano,” he said. “The training by Labarta. They always coordinated with Belda.
“In 2001, Belda came to my room saying he would give me 'a little something to soup up my engine’. It was EPO. Fuentes and Labarta were there. If you didn’t take it they would expel you from the team.
“I took the medication because it was compulsory in the team. I never did it voluntarily. If I report them here [in Spain], I am sacked. If I did it in France, then all of Kelme would go to jail.”
Echoing the testimony of another cyclist, Jörge Jaksche, this week, Manzano said that Fuentes would provide him with powder to contaminate any urine samples given to officials in drug tests. “The white powder was put into the penis to impair the urine,” he said. “So we gave no positive EPO.”
He said the cyclists manipulated the UCI’s blood testing controls by lowering hematocrit levels with ­reinfused pints of human albumin. They would then be given a “square pill” to help them pass urine.
Manzano listed a cocktail of drugs he would take: EPO, cortisone, a female hormone called human chorionic gonadotropin that is produced during pregnancy, AndroGel patches containing testosterone, the stimulant Synacthen – which has been used in the horse-racing industry – and Actovegin, a drug derived from calf blood.
Manzano added that he also took Oxyglobin, a blood derivative manufactured for dogs to increase blood’s oxygen levels, during the 2003 Tour. “I injected 50ml of Oxyglobin,” Manzano said. “It was the day of my weakness.”
He blamed the drugs for his sudden collapse on the first mountain stage of the 2003 Tour. He said team officials prevented him from telling French doctors what he had taken because they could all have been arrested.
“I had taken Oxyglobin intravenously, a haemoglobin for dogs, and Belda and Labarta knew,” he said. “I attacked [French rider] Richard Virenque on a stage and I began to feel progressively worse until I fainted. In the team they asked me to not say what I had taken nor to do a test because it was in France and we would all go to jail.”
Several days later Manzano was reinfused with blood. He told the court that he suffered an allergic reaction and was so sick that his wife had to stop the train he was travelling on so he could get off.
He said the team expelled him soon afterwards once he had accused them of putting the riders’ lives at risk. He denied the suggestion that he was sacked because he breached team rules when he was found with another woman in his room before a race.
Spanish police launched their crackdown on Fuentes’ doping network in Operation Puerto in 2006, two years after Manzano had alleged systematic doping in the Kelme team in an interview with the Spanish newspaper Diario AS.
