http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569199/s/4400d6dc/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cgolf0C114483110CPaul0ECasey0Egamble0Epays0Edividends0Bhtml/story01.htm
Paul Casey gamble pays dividends
By James Corrigan, Golf Correspondent
10:00PM GMT 03 Mar 2015
Comments
Paul Casey felt like he “betrayed” the European Tour when quitting his membership last year to chase ranking points in the US. But after a fantastic fortnight which has more than justified “the toughest decision of my career”, the former world No3 is back where he belongs; among the game’s elite and poised to limit his self-enforced exile to just a few months.
At the Honda Classic on Monday, Casey did not believe he had done enough with his tie for third to re-enter the world’s top 50 and so gain entry to the £5 million WGC Cadillac Championship which begins here at Donald Trump’s luxurious resort on Thursday.
When he was informed that, together with his runner-up finish in Los Angeles, the podium placing behind Padraig Harrington was indeed sufficient, the 37-year-old punched the air. After three years in the wilderness, Casey was back in the big time and Miami bound.
A day on and the smile was still evident. “This is exactly what I was aiming for when I chose to dedicate myself full-time to the PGA Tour,” Casey said. “And I’ve done it, after only a few months. The next step is to consolidate, make sure I get in the Masters, and carry on moving up and make myself a fixture up there again.”
To return to Augusta for the first time since 2012, Casey must remain in the top 50 until March 30, which in golf’s time frame is four tournaments’ time. Standing in 45th and in this form, Casey is obviously well-placed.
Harrington wins Honda Classic
Woods denies he is banned from golf
Poulter hits purple patch at Honda Classic
Who is the most stylish sportsman of all time?
His next deadline would then be May 1. That is when he would have to rejoin his home circuit if any points he accrues from August are to count. Casey would have to play a minimum of 13 events, but as the four majors and four WGCs count he would be almost two-thirds of the way there. It would, as they say, be a “no-brainer”.
Casey claims not to be aware of these rules and stipulations, but insists his ignorance is not down to the fact that having missed out on the biennial skirmish since 2008, he has fallen out of love with the Ryder Cup.
Anything but, in fact.
“I totally understood the headlines when I quit the European Tour, how I turned my back on my home tour and how I’d given up on the Ryder Cup,” he said. “If I was an outsider looking in, that’s probably what I would have thought, too. But the truth is, I haven’t given up on the Ryder Cup.
“My dream is to play in another one, another few, but I just haven’t figured what I need to do as yet. My energy has all been focused on the PGA Tour and playing well.
“I do think about the Ryder Cup and what will happen. What if I’m a major champion and a top 10 in the world and I’m not a member of the European Tour? What happens then? I don’t play? Having said that I was seventh in the world in 2010 and still didn’t get picked [by Colin Montgomerie]!
“I just have to get back to the top of my game and go from there as that’s where I’ll be most use to Europe.” Darren Clarke, the new European Ryder Cup captain, will be mighty glad to hear it.
Many experts believe that Casey possesses the most talent out of England’s ‘golden generation’ and as a former World Match Play champion, he is something of a specialist in the mano-a-mano format. It is utterly bizarre that he has not worn the blue and gold for seven years and although a succession of injuries precipitated his spiral from his glory days of 2009, something had to change.
“I talked to Peter [Kostis, his coach] and we agreed that I was running out of second chances,” Casey said. “It felt a bit now or never, yeah. I dwelled on the decision for a long, long time.
“Even when I made up my mind that ‘right, even though you’ve won a few times in the last few years you’re still treading water outside the top 50’, I took a few months to tell my agent, Guy Kinnings - I felt I was betraying the European Tour as a whole. But I’ll be honest, I feel so relieved now knowing that I don’t have to run myself ragged.
“I feel great about it and great about my game. Life off the golf course is brilliant, too.”
Casey was married last year to the TV presenter, Pollyanna Woodward, and in September, their first child arrived. “When I’m away playing, I get these little videos of my boy in the morning and the evening and I think, ‘You know, so what I missed a short putt - it doesn’t really matter’,” Casey said. “Lex [his son] doesn’t care, does he?
“The point is, I used to take my game everywhere with me and now I don’t. I’m happy. Relaxed and happy and playing well.”
