http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569303/s/439172df/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cceltic0C114233750CCeltic0E30EInter0EMilan0E30Ematch0Ereport0EJohn0EGuidetti0Escores0Elast0Egasp0Eequaliser0Eto0Ekeep0Ehosts0Ealive0Ein0Etie0Bhtml/story01.htm
Celtic 3 Inter Milan 3, match report: John Guidetti scores last-gasp equaliser to keep hosts alive in tie
By Roddy Forsyth
9:45PM GMT 19 Feb 2015
Comments
What 60,000 incredulous spectators witnessed in the East End of Glasgow was not so much a contest as a commotion. The first leg of Celtic’s meeting with Inter Milan in the Europa League’s round of 32 was in keeping with the Scottish champions’ perverse progress in Europe under Ronny Deila.
They handed Inter Milan a 2-0 start inside 13 minutes then retrieved their position with two goals back to back – the first scored by Stuart Armstrong on his European debut as a Hoops player, the second an own goal by Hugo Campagnaro, which Armstrong effectively forced. Having thus rocked Inter back on their heels, Celtic presented Roberto Mancini’s team with a third goal on a platter in the form of a horrible error by Craig Gordon.
Inter conceded another equaliser in injury time to John Guidetti – a player who last scored on Nov 30 – before Gordon went some way towards redeeming himself with a splendid save to prevent Xherdan Shaqiri from contributing an ultimate twist.
Shaqiri – identified by Deila as a particular menace beforehand – lived up to his billing when he put Inter ahead after only four minutes. The lead-up began on Inter’s right flank with a free-kick which the Swiss attacker failed to invest with any threat.
Celtic forced their opponents to funnel the ball all the way back to Juan Pablo Carrizo, but Inter returned to the other end where Zdravko Kuzmanovic chipped the ball cutely for Shaqiri to peel off Virgil van Dijk for a left-foot shot that would have gone out, but for Gordon’s block which rebounded to the Swiss forward.
Deila blasts 'stupid' McManaman
Celtic face heavy Uefa fine for Europe League flare-up
Deila furious at Celtic v Aberdeen being moved to noon
Celtic revive spirit of 1967 against Inter
Shaqiri tucked a drive below the keeper for the opener. Celtic, not for the first time in European action at home this season, looked utterly dishevelled.
For the second goal defensive frailty again held the door open, this time when Shaqiri once more saw an effort parried by Gordon back to him. The forward tried a drive which came off Van Dijk and fell for Rodrigo Palacio to rifle home an angled finish.
When Inter eased off the throttle, the Scottish champions found a menacing rhythm. It peaked in a sensational two-minute burst that shook Celtic Park to its foundations.
Armstrong, who cost £1.75 million from Dundee United last month and who is training to be a lawyer, exposed Inter with a masterly cross examination, first when he clipped home an Adam Matthews cutback and, scarcely more than a minute later, when his proximity confused Campagnaro into knocking a Stefan Johansen lob into his own net.
On the stroke of half-time, Gordon came to collect a speculative punt from Gary Medel but let the ball slip on to the astonished Palacio, who rolled home into the empty net.
There was a twist in injury time as Guidetti, the on-loan Manchester City striker, contrived a spellbinding overhead kick to bring the tie to parity again. Celtic must now either win outright or draw 4-4 or better in the San Siro, but at least they have hope.
“It was an unbelievable football match with and an unbelievable atmosphere,” said Deila. “Two down early in the match, it is so hard to get back against an Italian team, but we have talked about being brave and that is why I am very proud.”
Mancini was less enchanted with Inter’s performance. “We scored two goals and thought it was an easy game. We know that the game is 95 minutes and with one mistake the result can change. We start the next game with a slight advantage but we will need to play very well.”
Celtic (4-2-3-1): Gordon; Matthews, Denayer, Van Dijk, Izaguirre; Bitton, Brown; Mackay-Steven, Johansen, Armstrong; Griffiths. Zaluska (g), Ambrose, Guidetti, Scepovic, Wakaso, McGregor, Henderson.
Inter Milan (4-3-1-2): Carrizo; Santon, Ranocchia, Juan, Camagnaro; Kuzmanovic, Guarih, Medel; Shaqiri; Icardi, Palacio. Subs: Handanovic (g), Kivacic, Vidic, Obi, Dodo, Puscas, Hernanes.
Referee: Istvan Vad, Hungary.
