http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569199/s/4271d5a9/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cgolf0C113537350CMartin0EKaymers0Eastonishing0Ecollapse0Eat0EAbu0EDhabi0EHSBC0EChampionship0Egifts0Etitle0Eto0EGary0EStal0Bhtml/story01.htm
Martin Kaymer's astonishing collapse at Abu Dhabi HSBC Championship gifts title to Gary Stal
By James Corrigan
4:53PM GMT 18 Jan 2015
Comments
Was this golf’s biggest choke? Certainly Martin Kaymer’s remarkable capitulation from being 10 shots ahead with 13 holes to play to losing by two to an unknown Frenchman, will long be talked about in the same breath as Jean Van de Velde, Medinah and Greg Norman.
Except during that infamous trio of merciless submission, the odds on the pacesetters were never as short as 1-500. That is what Ladbrokes were quoting on Kaymer after five holes of this barely credible final round.
What made the German’s collapse seem all the more incredible was the fact that he is considered one of the sport’s most impervious of front-runners – having won the US Open by eight shots last year – and in seven previous appearances at the Abu Dhabi HSBC Championship had won on three occasions. This was Devon Loch in plus fours.
Consider that Milan were “only” rated as 1-100 shots when leading Liverpool 3-0 at half-time in that extraordinary 2005 Champions League final and one will realise the unlikelihood of the scenario.
Rory McIlroy and Co had arrived at the course, in the words of the No 1, “playing for second”. In the event McIlroy did finish runner‑up – for the fourth occasion at Abu Dhabi – but not to Kaymer.
Johnson rejects concerns over cocaine 'issue'
Golfer Allenby kidnapped, robbed and dumped in park
Sky moves closer to Open rights
Poor putting leaves McIlroy off pace
The sight of Gary Stal, a 22-year-old rookie ranked 357th in the world with a previous best Tour placing of fifth, clutching the Falcon Trophy surrounded by billionaire sheikhs only added to the surreal nature of this outrageous denouement.
Kaymer is not a demonstrative character but was clearly struggling to take in what had occurred. “I’m surprised and shocked,” the German said. “I don’t really know how to put it into words. It was very, very sur­prising today. It will take me a few days to reflect on this. I don’t think I played that badly. I started well and just hit two drives which led to two bad holes.”
Three birdies in the first four holes extended a six-shot advantage into double figures and brought into tantalising vision the record winning margin of 12 shots in a regular European Tour event. What a cruel desert mirage that was to prove. Although it was hardly panic stations when Stal picked up three birdies in four holes from the sixth, or when Kaymer bogeyed the sixth. Kaymer was still six clear when he stood on the ninth.
Six shots later, having located a bush off the tee and taken a penalty, it was suddenly game on, particularly as Stal was on his way to four birdies in a row from the eighth.
Kaymer was still two ahead, however, on the 13th tee. Again his driver contrived to hurtle the ball into a bush and again a penalty was required. The fact that his nerves were all over the place was confirmed when he chunked a chip. He failed to get up and down and the triple-bogey seven forced him back to 17-under. Incredibly, within eight holes, he had fallen from 10 clear to one behind.
As it was, Kaymer probably fared well in holding it together sufficiently to play out in par. It was left to ­McIlroy to attempt to conquer Stal. The world No 1 reeled off four birdies on the back nine for a 66 to finish on 18‑under. But his fate was effectively sealed when Stal holed a long putt on the 16th to go two clear and McIlroy, himself, saw an eagle attempt on the last slip agonisingly by.
This was a fourth runner-up finish for McIlroy in Abu Dhabi and he will rue the chances he missed with his putter on Friday and Saturday. His pain will be nought compared to that of Kaymer. “I’ve lost leads in the final round and so I sympathise with Martin,” McIlroy said, referring to his 2011 Masters blow-out. “Martin was 10 ahead and, naturally, from there you think there’s only one winner. It just shows you, funny things can happen in this game.”
Kaymer’s 75 left him in third and will long be discussed. Arnold Palmer was once seven clear with nine holes to play in the US Open before losing to Billy Casper. Of course, this was not a major, but still it will hurt. But for Stal, a 150-1 shot in the morning, a 65 saw him achieve one of golf’s more sensational maiden Tour wins.
Walking down the 18th, with the miracle almost complete the emotion got to him. “I thought of my mother, Christine, who passed away when I was playing at Wentworth last year,” Stal said. “I thought about her a lot today.”
Golf's biggest chokes
Arnold Palmer 1966 US Open The King began the final day at the Olympic Club three ahead of Billy Casper and with nine to play was seven ahead. But Casper came back in 32, Palmer in 39 and Casper was to win the 18-hole play-off.
Greg Norman 1996, Masters The Australian seemed sure to end his wait for a green jacket when starting the final round six shots ahead of Nick Faldo. Yet in excruitiating scenes, Norman shot a 78 to Faldo's 67 to lose by five. Never did win at Augusta.
Jean Van de Velde, 1999 Open All the Frenchman needed was a double-bogey down the 18th at Carnoustie. However, after bouncing off the grandstand back into the burn, he took a treble-bogey seven and lost in a play-off to Scotland' Paul Lawrie.
