Australian golfer Robert Allenby 'kidnapped, robbed, beaten and dumped in a park'
By James Corrigan
8:39AM GMT 18 Jan 2015
Comments
Robert Allenby, the Australian golfer, said he was “lucky to survive” after allegedly having a drink spiked and then being kidnapped, robbed, beaten and dumped.
Allenby was at a popular bar with a friend and his caddie in the Hawaiian tourist resort of Waikiki after missing the cut at the Sony Open. The 43-year-old recalls his friend visiting the bathroom as they prepared to leave. The next thing he remembers is being dumped in a park six miles away.
Allenby believes he was drugged before being taken to an underground car park where he was knocked out and thrown into the boot of a car. The four-time PGA Tour winner, who once finished third on the European Tour order of merit, sustained facial cuts and bruises but was released from hospital a relieved man.
“I didn't think I was going to survive this one," Allenby told AAP. "I was separated from my friend in the bar after we had paid the tab at 10:48pm and he went to the bathroom and next thing you know I'm being dumped in a park miles away.
"I only know this part because a homeless woman found me and told me she saw a few guys pull up and throw me out of the car. That is where I got the scrapes above my eye from the sidewalk."
Johnson rejects concerns over cocaine 'issue'
New witness questions Allenby 'kidnap' claim
Allenby issues emotional defence of kidnap story
Sky moves closer to Open rights
It was this point that Allenby came to and realised he was without his mobile phone or his wallet. He was also being harassed by homeless people sleeping rough in the park. "The homeless woman got me away from the others and then a retired military guy walking past came to my aid," he said.
"He got me into a taxi and paid for me to get to my hotel and I called police from there. I have his details and will be getting back in touch with him for sure."
Allenby is confident the FBI will get to the bottom of it. “At the end of the day it could have been a lot worse,” he told AP. He hopes to be well enough to fly back to his Orlando home in the next few days.
His caddie, Mick Middlemo, told the website www.weiunderpar.com: “I don’t think there’s any doubt they slipped something in his drink. None of us were really that drunk. He vaguely remembers being with these three people.”

