http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/668943/s/42af64b2/sc/24/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Ceuropean0Erugby0C113687940CEuropean0Ecompetitions0Eshould0Emean0Eall0Eof0EEurope0Enot0Ejust0EAnglo0EFrench0Bhtml/story01.htm
European competitions should mean all of Europe, not just Anglo-French
By Brian Moore
8:36PM GMT 25 Jan 2015
Comments
The knockout stage of European club rugby’s Champions Cup has the following qualifiers by nationality: France three, England four and Ireland one. In the previous five seasons the Celtic representation was three, two, five, two and three. Is the fact that there is only one this season, Leinster, a quirk of circumstance or something more?
One of the long-standing complaints from the French and English clubs was that under the previous system of qualification all the major Celtic teams qualified almost automatically from their domestic competition, the Pro12, from which there was/is no promotion and relegation.
This meant that any international players who were jaded could be rested and any whose fitness was questionable need not be risked. Moreover, the Pro12 players had a relatively benign season and did not suffer the physical attrition of the Top 14 and the Aviva Premiership, with their promotion and relegation and non-automatic European qualification.
This was claimed to help the Celtic club sides in Europe, as players were always fresh, but also to help their international teams, as players could be managed more effectively and their season planned far more conservatively.
There was always too much made of this by the French and English; the Celtic sides did not play sub‑standard teams with anything like the frequency they claimed.
Armitage faces suspended sentence
Saracens limp into last eight
Bath survive to make knockouts
Parling adds to injury crisis
However, nor was it true, as was claimed conversely, that it had no effect and was an illusory complaint. The fact is that being able to rest a top player even intermittently is disproportionately valuable. It is the same when you can liaise with national coaches to plan such a player’s season with the focus shifting from club to international without difficulty. This is accentuated when it comes to the end of a long and demanding campaign.
This season’s qualifiers may be a statistical anomaly; we will not know whether there is any lasting effect for a few more seasons. When all is said and done, the Celtic sides effectively did not lose more than one place in the Champions Cup qualification. That said, those hoping for it to be a mere quirk may be disappointed.
I have spoken to numerous players and coaches from Celtic clubs this season and all of them, to a greater or lesser degree, agreed on certain points. They admitted that previously it was possible to take a rest and that a certain security was felt from automatic qualification.
This season it has been different. They say that domestically the rugby has been harder and that they feel there is pressure when it comes to qualifying for the Champions Cup.
Thus, whether real or perceived, the change has had an effect and that is unlikely to be reversed. If anything, it is likely to become more pronounced.
As it should be, might be the response from the English and French; what was an incongruity is no longer and that is fair. Well, to a point and only to a point.
Nobody should want European cup competitions to be anything other than as European as they can be, within a reasonable framework. The traditional contributions of sides such Munster are not to be sought for whimsical reasons; they are needed to retain the competition’s authenticity.
Anglo-French dominated tournaments would still have considerable value commercially, that is a simple fact of the broadcasting market, but eventually would not be truly European and their value would be less than it could and should be. This would not be the only deleterious effect if another serious issue – of far greater import – is added.
If Celtic teams do not regularly get into the Champions Cup and its later rounds a number of players will not be able to play at that vital intermediary level between domestic and international rugby. They will remain quality players but with less exposure to the greater intensity and quality of European cup rugby.
For inexperienced players it would mean a more difficult transition to international rugby while some experienced players would go into the Six Nations and other international tournaments and games not fully prepared.
The Six Nations is a commercial success beyond the sum of its parts. Its continued development is vital for the health of rugby in its participating countries and beyond. Now that the qualification anomaly has gone, rugby does not want a situation where English – and particularly French – clubs are able to profit from higher and, if some had their way, unrestrained spending on their players.
Like many walks of life what, at first glance, seems unrelated turns out to be inextricably linked; and the salary cap and European cup rugby are. Great care needs to be taken to maintain the competitiveness of all, not some, of its participants and that cannot be left to the market.
