Wasps 20 Leinster 20: Draw sees Leinster qualify for the quarter-finals of the Champions Cup
By Steve James, Ricoh Arena
6:27PM GMT 24 Jan 2015
Comments
Andy Goode knew immediately. The Wasps fly-half punched the air downwards in disappointment as he realised that his dropped-goal attempt was doomed.
Referee Jerome Garces blew the final whistle, and we had a draw. Nobody really knew what to do, but it was Leinster who were undoubtedly the happier because they were through to the quarter-finals of the new European Rugby Champions Cup.
Wasps could still join them as one of the three runners-up, as their points difference (50) is better than Harlequins' (36), with whom they share 18 points, but that will depend on other results.
In truth it was almost a miracle that Wasps were in the game at all at that late stage. They were absolutely destroyed in the first half after they lost flanker Ashley Johnson to the sin-bin after just 17 seconds, and it showed remarkable character for them to recover and belatedly show the game that has been so effective this season, with their big runners Nathan Hughes and Johnson causing havoc in midfield.
They scored twice from driving mauls and prop Matt Mullan was hugely instrumental in their resurgence, as their scrummage improved markedly and Mullan carried to huge effect, scoring a deserved try. He is some player, and it shows England's tremendous depth at loosehead that he is fourth choice.
Harlequins hammer Castres but exit Champions Cup
Bath are finally maturing into a top side
Cipriani to stay at Sale after his England call-up
'Europe beware - English teams are on march'
"You don't have to be a brain surgeon to work out that we left ourselves too much to do," Dai Young, the director of rugby, said. "We got penalised off the field in the first half, but I am very proud of the effort in the second half, because we could have folded."
Leinster were sustained by the quality of some individual performances, notably from flanker Jordi Murphy up front and Ian Madigan and Luke Fitzgerald behind. Madigan missed four penalties but was always a threat in attack. There were, though, some concerns for Ireland ahead of the Six Nations as both winger Dave Kearney and scrum-half Eoin Reddan departed with serious-looking shoulder and knee injuries respectively.
Jamie Heaslip, the No 8, also went off with a smaller shoulder problem. Kearney was hurt when Johnson tackled him in the air from the kick-off. It was not malicious but it was utterly reckless, and it could easily have been a red card had Kearney fallen more dangerously. As it was Kearney was still injured. He carried on briefly but was soon departing clutching that shoulder.
"The frustration for us is that we lose a bloke for 80 minutes, they lose a bloke for 10," Matt O'Connor, Leinster's head coach, said. "It doesn't make sense. It's disappointing to lose a guy for several weeks. Eoin has a medial ligament injury and Jamie is still carrying that shoulder."
Leinster led 20-6 at half-time and, given that they enjoyed a remarkable 76 per cent of the possession, it really should have been much more, even though Goode missed a simple penalty on the stroke of the interval.
With Johnson off, Leinster kicked the penalty to touch, then another one immediately to the corner. From there the drive was powerful so that by the time the ball was recycled, it just took quick hands from Heaslip, Madigan, Rob Kearney to put Fergus McFadden in at the corner. Madigan converted.
Goode did kick a penalty but it was 7-3 before Johnson returned. Madigan then had a rather curious few minutes in which he missed two penalties and then kicked a ball straight out. He was, though, heavily involved as Leinster pounded at Wasps' line through 13 phases. Wasps' defence was heroic but another penalty resulted, and Madigan kicked it to make it 10-3.
Reddan now departed, but, crucially, Wasps' prop Lorenzo Cittadini also left temporarily after being sent to the sin-bin for not rolling away.
Jimmy Gopperth kicked this penalty as Madigan was receiving treatment, and though Goode did kick a second penalty, Leinster made sure that they scored a second try while having the numerical advantage.
They may even have scored twice, because Gopperth thought he had stretched over near the posts. But that was immaterial as television evidence showed that replacement scrum-half Isaac Boss had just got the ball on the line earlier. Madigan converted and it was 20-6, as Goode missed the penalty resulting from Kane Douglas's yellow card for a late and high hit on Johnson.
With Cittadini back on, Wasps needed to make their extra man count, but a brilliant tackle from Fitzgerald on Elliot Daly scuppered one promising attack. And then Wasps thought they had scored when Tom Varndell crossed in the corner, but there had been crossing.
Douglas returned and it was still 20-6 as Madigan missed a third penalty. But at last Wasps had some possession, and eventually a try came from Mullan after a driving line-out. Goode converted and it was 20-13.
Wasps were inspired. Leinster suddenly became jittery. Seven minutes later Wasps scored again from a driving line-out, as Hughes stretched over a ruck to score.
Goode's first conversion hit the post, but Leinster had charged too early and Goode made no mistake with the re-take. Sadly, and so unusually for him, he could not be so accurate with the final kick of the match.
--
Scores 0-5 McFadden try, 0-7 Madigan con, 3-7 Goode pen, 3-10 Madigan pen, 3-13 Gopperth pen, 6-13 Goode pen, 6-18 Boss try, 6-20 Madigan con, 11-20 Mullan try, 13-20 Goode con, 18-20 Hughes try, 20-20 Goode con.
Wasps R Miller (A Masi 60); C Wade, E Daly, B Jacobs (A Lozowski 76), T Varndell; A Goode, J Simpson; M Mullan (S McIntyre 72), E Shervington (C Festuccia 57), L Cittadini (J Cooper-Woolley 49), B Davies, J Gaskell (K Myall 57), A Johnson, J Haskell (capt), N Hughes (Cooper-Woolley 35-40). Yellow cards Johnson 1, Cittadini 28.
Leinster R Kearney; F McFadden, L Fitzgerald, I Madigan, D Kearney (D Fanning 3); J Gopperth, E Reddan (I Boss 26); M Bent, S Cronin (R Strauss 63), M Moore (T Furlong 63), D Toner, K Douglas (M McCarthy 71), D Ryan, J Murphy, J Heaslip (capt, J Conan 64). Yellow card Douglas 40
Referee J Garces (France)

