Andy Murray v John Isner in Davis Cup: as it happened
By Rob Bagchi
3:57PM GMT 08 Mar 2015
– USA earn stay of execution – Ward comeback stuns America – Murray channels spirit of London 2012 – Agassi: Murray would benefit from children

Can Andy Murray take Great Britain through to the quarter-finals with a match to spare? Email with all your Davis Cup thoughts
15.56 Thanks for you company this afternoon. To re-cap, Andy Murray's straight-set victory means Great Britain have defeated USA to earn a home quarter-final tie against France the week after Wimbledon. Bye!
It feels great. this is a team effort. Everyone agrees the whole team played its part. Togetherness [is key]. We are all pulling in the same direction. In front of the cameras I'm a little bit shy. When the cameras are off I'm a different person. I've always loved playing Davis Cup. I want to thank the crowd, it was one of the most special atmospheres I've ever played in. A home tie against France, we'd probably play on a grass court. If we could play here again, we'd like to if we could. I have to fly to Indian Wells in the morning and am leaving for London at 8pm, but maybe my team-mates could have a drink for me.
15.49 Murray throws his sweatbands into the crowd, punches the air, gives his team-mates hugs. The whole team comes on to court to dance up and down.
Great Britain 7-6(4), 6-3, 7-6(4) USA It goes with serve as Murray moves to 2-1 ahead. Isner's lack of speed denies him an opportunity to break off a tamer serve. Murray breaks first with a beautiful slice drop that sets him up to smash a cross-court winner. GB lead 3-2. The most unfriendly wide-angled serve takes Murray to 4-2 as Isner frames it out of bounds then he moves to 5-2 with an ace down the centre that Isner challenges. It was clearly in. Isner nets a double-handed backhand from the baseline to give Murray four match points. Isner saves the first ... and the second as Murray nets his backhand off his own serve. But Murray takes the third to win the tiebreak 7-4. Game, set and match to Great Britain, 7-6, 6-3, 7-6. GB win the tie.
Great Britain 7-6(4), 6-3, 6-6 USA These Glaswegian vuvuzelas are creating a right racket to celebrate every point won by Murray. Three times in a row the cacophony begins and then it grows louder still when he aces to hold to love. We move into the tie-break.
Great Britain 7-6(4), 6-3, 5-6 USA Two fizzing serves are counterpunched by Murray who levels at 30-all before Murray, who has used all his challenges, gives a spitting Isner serve down the middle the beady eye. That makes it 40-30 and Isner holds with another too-hot-to-handle monster
Great Britain 7-6(4), 6-3, 5-5 USA Isner thinks he might have a chance, which given how much time and energy that would entail is almost masochistic. He fires a superb forehand winner that again provokes Murray to lacerate himself at love-30 down but then responds with four first serves in a row, a big one giving him his mojo back and he builds on it by shifting his opponent around to his obvious discomfort.
Great Britain 7-6(4), 6-3, 4-5 USA It's all going to serve and Murray is starting to get a littl down on himself, his frustration leading him to castigate himself after a couple of wild shots. Is there an opening here?
Diann Whitehead writes
Following online here in eastern Canada – I would LOVE to have made it to Glasgow – the atmosphere must be insane! Absolutely, no doubt in my mind, Andy will finish off Isner who was completely demoralized after the match against Ward on Friday and I doubt he’s recovered. I feel kind of sorry for John, he makes me think of a water buffalo being run down by a lion, it’s relentless and you just know what the ending has to be.
Let’s hope the same Andy-love atmosphere reigns in London come Wimbledon. He seems to really thrive on it (and he deserves it, too).
Andrew Castle earlier said that Isner has the gait of a camel in the desert even at the start of his matches. There is something about him that invites all these quadruped metaphors.
Great Britain 7-6(4), 6-3, 4-4 USA Perhaps we're heading for a breaker then, as Isner goes for broke but it doesn't come off so Murray holds quickly.
Great Britain* 7-6(4), 6-3, 3-4 USABut not on his own serve. Isner, a fan of the Creation, goes Biff, Bang, Pow and holds to love. Murray challenges the last point, an ace, which was comfotably in, which puts the mardy face back on his coupon as he sits chuntering to himself at the break.
Great Britain 7-6(4), 6-3, 3-3 USA Murray has been merciless in exposing the American's tiredness. His only tactic is to hit either with a one-two or, preferably a one. But Murray moves him around until he virtually gives in and goes down to 15.
Great Britain* 7-6(4), 6-3, 2-3 USA It's going with serve and immediately afterwards on comes the masseur to give Isner's thighs an oily rubbing.
Great Britain 7-6(4), 6-3, 2-2 USA Won to love by Murray in quick-fire and dismissive style.
Great Britain 7-6(4), 6-3, 1-2 USA Isner's serve and his forehand are holding up but anything requiring much movement is letting Murray pick points off him. It goes to 40-30 p-retty much to script - booming serve, fizzing forehand cross, dreadful volley, inability to cover ground - but then he wins it with an ace.
Great Britain 7-6(4), 6-3, 1-1 USA Isner's all or nothing approach takes him to deuce before Murray's ace infuriates the challenging Isner as it nicks the line by a quarter of a milimetre. Jim Courier wags his finger either at the ill-fortune or the cowd's joyous reaction to it. Murray holds by pushing Isner wide in his backhand court.
Great Britain 7-6(4), 6-3, 0-1 USA Isner is showing signs of falling apart. Murray is keeping himself in the rallies and waiting for Isner to make an error on the American's serve - or he was to go love-30 up but it was brilliance that earned three break points, a lovely backhand drive up the line with Isner flat-footed. Credit to Isner, though, he defends them, the first and third with aces, the second with a forehand pass. Murray then challenges what turns out to be a third ace in four serves and Isner closes out the hold with a high-kicking Buckaroo serve that Murray larrups off court bit in his oen half - out for a throw-in as it were.

Great Britain 7-6(4), 6-3 USA Clinical hold from Murray - giving himself three set points with serves that leap into the weary Isner. And he takes it at the first attempt when Isner nets his return. James Ward's coach says that Isner's legs have gone.
Great Britain 7-6(4), 5-3 USA A successful challenge from Isner earns him yet another ace down the centre line and he holds to love with another pair of missiles that Murray can get to but cannot keep in.
Great Britain 7-6(4), 5-2 USA Murray doesn't use that useful backhand nearly enough in my opinion but does here with so much spin that Isner can't control his attempted forehand cross court pass, sending it out to give Murray three game points. He only needs one of them.
Great Britain 7-6(4), 4-2 USA A chink for Murray after two unforced errors from Isner gives him love-30 lead. Isner tends to go wide to Murray's forehand court with his serve so Murray goes wide but Isner aces up the centr then levels with a very odd, almost sliced volley that only just stays in. Murray earns a break point by attacking Isner's second serve with a lovely withering forehand return off a throat high leaper to Isner's feet which he can't get back over the net. And he breaks with an impeccably deft running cross-court lob over the advancing Isner who suddenly looks very heavy legged indeed.
Great Britain 7-6(4), 3-2 USA At last a fine second-set rally that ends with Isner coming to the net to anticipate Murray's cross-court backhand winner but he comes in too slowly and opens up a corridor of the court for Murray to find. Murray holds. If he can keep Isner in points for five, six, seven shots, he looks the only winner.
Great Britain* 7-6(4), 2-2 USA We seem to be following the first-set pattern - Isner holds to 30. He keeps coming no matter how tired he looks.

Great Britain 7-6(4), 2-1 USA Another straightforward service hold. Explosive serves replace rallies as they did at this stage of the first set.
John Spencer asks
Can you tell me why the net in the Murray v Isner is not the same height? It appears to dip in the middle.
That's a good observation, John. But I don't know why. I will ask.
Great Britain 7-6(4), 1-1 USA Well, that was quick. Isner gets out the Howitzer and holds to love.
Great Britain 7-6(4), 1-0 USA Isner, the consensus view runs, has only enough energy for a three-set match so went all guns blazing. Now he's lost the first, he will be dispirited. There are signs of that in this game as he gives up the chase a little early as Murray moves to 40-15 then an unforced error gives GB the hold in the second set. Big fist and body pumping from Murray. If you've seen the video for Pump Up the Jam - imagine that dancer crossed with a feisty hen.

Great Britain 7-6(4) USA Murray wins the first point or rather Isner loses it with a long 116mph second serve. Then he gets too much on his return to Murray's second serve with the Scot in the foreahnd court and half the court open Isner spears his running return a foot wide. Murray goes 3-0 up before Isner gets it back to 3-2 with two unreturnable serves. Going wide with his serves moves Murray to 5-2, the first point won with an ace, the second by opening up the court for his second shot winner. Isner wins his two service points before Murray seals it with an ace. Ah. Here come the Proclaimers. "I remember my first teacher. Shetland made her jumpers and the devil made her features."
Great Britain 6-6 USA However well Isner is doing, though, Murray is fighting and moves to 30-15 with a glorious pass before the two of them face ecah other over the net to exchange driven volleys fired at each other's bodies after Murray scrambles to reach an attempted pass that sits up off the cord. Murray takes it to the breaker with an ace.
Great Britain 5-6 USA Cat and mouse as Murray inches ahead at 15-30 but then Isner holds with a booming second serve that rises and rises on Murray then an ace. Isner is playing so well, putting evrything into this - big serve plus an almost impetuous inclination to go for the big shots.
Great Britain 5-5 USA That second serve again - 77 mph - gives Isner an opening from love-30 after his tenacity won the game's first point by pinning Murray in his backhand court. Murray gets it back to 15-30 but then Isner's power earns him two break points. Hearts go in mouths when Murray has to defend the first on a second serve but he does it with one down the middle that kicks a little then by staying in the rally until Isner smacks his sixth or seventh baseline forehand too long. My - he defends the second on his econd serve too when Isner tries to run round it and blister it past him and fails to connect properly. But then he concedes another - saved this time with an ace right to the left extent of Isner's backhand court. Advantage comes when Isner comes at Murray's serve again, looking for another spitting winner return, but the American nets and Murray at last holds with another kicking serve.
Great Britain 4-5 USA It must be so exasperating playing such a dominant server. Murray works his socks off to move to love-15, scampering across the baseline to fire a brilliant pass but then two aces in succession - wide and unplayable, wrest back control. Isner goes to the net with a crisp backhand volley to move to 5-4, set up again with that magnificent kicking serve that Murray almost had to swat, short-arm style, at shoulder height. Murray's second serve has been a real concern so far. He needs to get his first serve range back.
Great Britain 4-4 USA This is turning into a war of attrition between the serves of Murray and Isner. Murray is all variation with his, long, down the centre line, wide and Isner is much the same. However, just as I was writing that Murray double faults twice in a row to let Isner back in at deuce then hits the net with his first serve. He goes for a 70mph floater just to get it in and Isner hammers a forehand down the line that Murray can't return with his backhand. Break point that Murray holds by nailing his first serve and forcing the error. He punches the air and shouts 'C'mon'. But Isner is not cowed by crowd or fist-pumps and takes another break point with a fizzing cross-court forehand. Murray saves it then surrenders another with a floaty second serve up the centre line that Isner puts away with contempt. Finally Murray pulls level again and Isner wastes his last challenge at the very limit of his backhand court. Deuce changes hands twice more before Murray elicits and unforced error when the pressure was on.
Great Britain 3-4 USA Isner's aggression pays off with another straightforward hold. Normal service has been resumed. Sincere apologies.
Great Britain 3-3 USA Murray holds to love.
Great Britain 2-3 USA Isner holds comfortably.
Great Britain 2-2 USA Murray holds but is taken to deuce as your humble blogger suffers technical issues.
Great Britain* 1-2 USA Three aces from Isner, two very wide followed by one up the middle at 30-15 when Murray compensated by moving wide. He's obviously conscious of the pass though and rightly so as Murray again picks him off when he comes to the net to take it to deuce. Isner aces again to take advantage but loses it on his second serve when he hugely overcooks his forehand response to Murray's improvised return to a vicious bodyserve. Isner bends his back to take it back to advantage with his serve but Murray saves game-point by chasing down a foeahand and chipping to the net. Isner wants to play a comfortable forehand cross-court drop volley to win the point but plants it straight into the cord. Boom - and Isner is back in front then Murray makes his first unforced error to give Isner the game.
Great Britain 1-1 USA* (denotes next server) Murray begins by going in after his serve and nailing his forehand in a three-stroke point then moves to 30-15 with an ace that Isner futilely challenges. Isner's tactics are to attack and it works to take him to 30-all when he goes to the net with a whipped forehand but pays the price when he does it again and opens the court for a withering pas from Murray. This could be over quickly. Isner does not look like he fancies hanging around either way.
Great Britain* 0-1 USA (denotes next server) Isner looks sharp enough but because the court is very slow and Murray is one of the best returners I've ever seen, this is close, Murray levelling at 30-all before Isner holds when Murray's attempted deep forehand return flew too long. Rather a subdued start.
13.16 John Isner will serve.
13.12 The crowd are singing Loch Lomond now and John Isner looks very subdued. It'll be the Proclaimers next. A few practice serves to go.
13.08 James Ward certainly put some miles in John Isner's legs and Andy Murray, for one, was thrilled by the Friday night epic.
<noframe>Twitter: Andy Murray - Time to remove every item of clothing and run through the streets of Glasgow.. Absolute farce from <a href="http://www.twitter.com/JamesWardtennis" target="_blank">@JamesWardtennis</a></noframe>
13.06 Here comes Andy Murray to a rapturous welcome.
13.05 Good afternoon. John Lloyd says he's never known an atmosphere like it in Glasgow. Meanwhile they're playing that Elbow song. It's the new national anthem. Heaven preserve us. Coldplay for Lancastrians.

12.50 World number five Andy Murray is in Davis Cup action from 1pm and with Great Britain leading USA by 2-1, a singles victory over world No20 John Isner would prove decisive.
Murray led Britain to a 3-1 win over the U.S. in the first round last year in San Diego.
The U.S. leads 11-8 overall against Britain in the oldest rivalry in Davis Cup history, dating to the first competition in 1900.
The winner in Glasgow will advance to the quarter finals against either France or Germany.

