Davis Cup: James Ward stuns John Isner to give Great Britain 2-0 lead over United States
By Simon Briggs, Tennis Correspondent, Glasgow
8:57PM GMT 06 Mar 2015
Comments
It is 80 years since Great Britain won back-to-back Davis Cup matches against the USA, but James Ward has put them within a point of glory by reprising his heroics from last year’s tie in San Diego.
Then, he turned around a 2-1 deficit in sets to outlast the American No. 1 Sam Querrey – who was filling in as injury cover for John Isner’s dicky ankle. On Friday Isner was back to his regular position as the spearhead of the visiting team, but it made no difference as Ward again refused to lie down, fighting his way back from a two-set disadvantage to win 6-7, 5-7. 6-3, 7-6, 15-13 in almost exactly five hours.
This tie had been billed as the tennis equivalent of “the Scottish play”, with all the emphasis on the Murray brothers returning to their homeland amid a medley of Proclaimers songs on the PA system. And Andy Murray certainly delivered on his part of the deal yesterday as he despatched the American back-up player Donald Young in four comfortable sets.
<noframe>Twitter: Andy Murray - Time to remove every item of clothing and run through the streets of Glasgow.. Absolute farce from <a href="http://www.twitter.com/JamesWardtennis" target="_blank">@JamesWardtennis</a></noframe> Andy Murray had his say on proceedings
Then it was the turn of the man from north London, who developed his first strokes on a little-used tarmac court just off the Euston Road and admits that he would trade it all in tomorrow to play for his beloved Arsenal.
Spirit of London 2012 helps Murray give GB Davis Cup lead
Federer downgrades Davis Cup
Murray v Young: as it happened
Murray has to find reason for his 'meltdown', says Cash
With his third Davis Cup win over a player with top-20 credentials, Ward has confirmed his status as something of a specialist in this competition. His Australian coach flew all the way around the world to watch him yesterday and try to figure out what he does differently when wearing a Team GB shirt. (Although the dramatic paisley-print design that Ward wore yesterday, created by his friend and sponsor Ted Baker, was quite unlike any Team GB shirt we had seen before.)
The answer may be quite simple: Ward simply has more belief when operating in a team environment. He has also performed numerous comebacks in crunch matches, and he called on all that experience yesterday in the epic final set.
Matches against Isner invariably involve tie-breaks, because he is a superb server and an ordinary returner. There were two yesterday, starting with the opening set, and Ward could perhaps have won that one with a little more luck: he held a mini-break only for Isner, who was looking tight, to land a fortunate winner off the net-cord that relaxed him.
In the second set, Ward dropped serve for the only time in the match; in the third, Isner returned the favour. The fourth found Ward really hitting his stride as he earned two mini-breaks – an absolute landslide in the context of this match – to take the tie-break 7-3.
Jamie Ward hits a forehand during his five-set win against John Isner (AFP)
Then we were into marathon territory, a place that Isner – the winner of that 70-68 final set against Nicolas Mahut at Wimbledon five years ago – knows better than most. Ward was winning almost all the baseline rallies by now, as the Isner backhand collapsed in a way that would embarrass a few club players. He chiselled out five match points but could not find the killer blow.
At the changeovers, it was not only the team captain Leon Smith who was feeding Ward advice but Murray too, using Smith as the intermediary. The TV cameras picked up constant streams of dialogue between these key figures, and it seemed to be working: Ward was applying more and more pressure to the Isner serve, and apparently reading it better and better. Was he applying the read-outs from Murray’s computer-like brain?
The two players were both slowing down, though, and Ward faced break points of his own in the 23rd game of the decider. The second produced a long and edgy rally in which neither man could bring himself to pull the trigger. In the end, Ward trundled into the net, moving more like a veteran than a 28-year-old, and put away a volley to relieve the pressure.
Andy Murray and brother Jamie cheers Ward on against Isner (GETTY IMAGES)
Finally, on the sixth attempt, Isner netted a low volley and Ward ran straight to Murray – his close friend and advisor – for a lengthy hug. The decision about the doubles match tomorrow should now have been settled, for both the British singles players will surely be rested in order to better perform their duties tomorrow. It is almost impossible to see the Americans, demoralised and exhausted as they are, getting out of this mess, but stranger things have happened.
Earlier, Murray had given credit to the raucous support in the Emirates Arena for inspiring him to his own 6-1, 6-1, 4-6, 6-2 win over Young. “When I played at the Olympics there was a similar reception there,” Murray said, “and that’s the nice thing about playing in the Davis Cup: having the home ties where you play in front of crowds that are right behind you.
“When you play in an indoor arena everything feels louder and all of the noise stays in. I used that energy and emotion very well at the start of the match. It was maybe nicer to play first, because if I’d gone on and seen the atmosphere, the reception and everything and then had to sit for three hours it would have been tough.”
As it happened, Murray had to sit for five hours in a state of nervous tension while Ward battled away, but they can now relish their victories and rest up while the doubles specialists – Jamie Murray and Dominic Inglot – take on the world-beating Bryan brothers in today’s match.

A jubilant Murray later tweeted:



