Slovenian player aiming for British Davis Cup spot
By Eleanor Crooks
9:26PM GMT 06 Jan 2015
Comments
Aljaz Bedene, the world No 156 from Slovenia, hopes to be granted British citizenship this week, and wants to represent his adopted country in the Davis Cup in March.
It emerged last year that the 25-year-old, who has lived in Britain since 2008, was intending to switch nationalities. But his hopes of playing Davis Cup for Britain appeared to be scuppered by a new rule preventing players representing two different countries that came into force at the start of 2015.
Bedene had not expected to complete the citizenship process until next month but he sent off all his paperwork in time to beat the deadline for the new rule. If his application is successful, he would be eligible for Britain’s Davis Cup World Group first-round match against the United States in Glasgow in March.
Bedene, who is playing in the Chennai Open this week, said: “I gave all the papers to the Home Office and I’m waiting for their response. It’s quite an exciting period for me.
“It would be really nice to get approval from the Home Office. It should be in the next couple of days. I had to rush because of the new rules but I think it will be all right.”
Nadal in doubt for Australia Open
Tennis 2014 review: Rejuvenated Federer puts revolution at bay
Keep up Murray
Graphic: Roger Federer's career in numbers
Bedene’s ranking would make him the British No 3 behind Andy Murray and James Ward, but he has been ranked as high as 71 and his current standing is a reflection of 18 months of injury problems.
The option of selecting Bedene would be welcome for the Davis Cup captain Leon Smith, who has long bemoaned the lack of strength in depth. But the Scot will be aware it is a divisive issue and, given Ward’s good form in the Davis Cup, it would be a huge move to change the No 2 singles player behind Murray against the US.
Bedene – who played three matches for Slovenia between 2010 and 2012, all in dead rubbers – said: “I’m in contact with Leon and he’s also excited to hear the news. We’re all hoping it goes through.”
Bedene made a fine start to the new season by coming through qualifying in Chennai before beating 88th-ranked Lukas Lacko on Tuesday to set up a second-round match against Feliciano López.
From India, he heads to Melbourne, where he will play in Australian Open qualifying.“ It’s great to start the season with qualies and a first-round win, especially against a top-100 player. I’m satisfied with my performances so far and I’m looking forward to the next match. I’m looking forward to playing a full season finally. I want to show that I’m much better than the ranking shows.”

