http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569991/s/40c1397f/sc/24/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ctennis0Crogerfederer0C112487590CRoger0EFederer0Eguides0ESwitzerland0Eto0Ean0Ehistoric0Efirst0EDavis0ECup0Etitle0Ein0EFrance0Bhtml/story01.htm
Roger Federer guides Switzerland to an historic first Davis Cup title in France
By Simon Briggs, Tennis Correspondent in Lille
6:44PM GMT 23 Nov 2014
Comments
Roger Federer threw himself flat on the clay and wept this afternoon as he claimed the one title missing from his extraordinary trophy cabinet. A tally of no fewer than 62 winners revealed the brilliance of his game as he despatched Richard Gasquet – a last-minute call up for this shambolic French team – in straight sets to seal Switzerland’s first triumph in 114 years of Davis Cup tennis.
So it was that the final day of the 2014 tennis season finished in glory for the man who – despite failing to add to his collection of 17 grand slam titles in 2014 – has unquestionably been the story of the year.
For some, Federer’s indifferent 2013 might have suggested that tennis’s presiding genius was losing his touch. But even at what was perhaps the low point – his straight-sets defeat to Tommy Robredo at last year’s US Open – the Daily Telegraph argued that he just needed to “experiment with a larger racket head [and] consider his coaching arrangements … He clearly still has more tennis left in him.”
Now, with an expanded 96-square-inch Wilson in his hand and Stefan Edberg acting as his new muse, Federer has exceeded his own stated aim of claiming five titles in 2014. He arrived in Lille with exactly that number of ATP trophies to his name, but today’s dramatic 3-1 victory over France has delivered something that neither he nor Switzerland has ever held before.
Today’s match – in which Federer filleted Gasquet by a 6-3, 6-2, 6-2 scoreline – was an extraordinary conclusion to a week that began with Federer pulling out of the final of the Barclays ATP World Tour Finals in London because of a back spasm. He was understandably tentative on Friday night, at least in the early stages of his against Gael Monfils, perhaps not trusting his body to cope with a lengthy contest on a dry and slippery clay court.
Federer vs Gasquet: as it happened
That match delivered the heaviest defeat of Federer’s Davis Cup career, as he succumbed 6-1, 6-4, 6-3 to an inspired Monfils, but his jaunty mood in the interview room afterwards suggested that he was only just warming to his task. “I finished the match without pain,” he said, “and now I expect more from myself.”
Those expectations were more than satisfied as Federer went on to win the last six sets of the tie, and so ended the wider contest with one rubber still unplayed. First he and his doubles partner Stan Wawrinka demolished Gasquet and Julien Benneteau, and then it was time for today’s masterclass. Monfils, the only in-form player on the French team, was thus denied the chance to contest a deciding rubber against Wawrinka.
If the Swiss have been magnificent this weekend, the French cause has collapsed in chaotic enough style to recall the USA’s Ryder Cup capitulation at Gleneagles. The main theme of the post-mortem will be the withdrawal of Tsonga – their highest-ranked player – from these last two matches.
Jean Gachassin, the president of the French Tennis Federation, told TV reporters on Saturday night that Tsonga had been affected by an arm injury, but others believe that he simply bottled it. Close-ups taken during the pre-match anthems yesterday afternoon revealed Tsonga to be weeping, perhaps less from national pride than from the realisation that his race was run.
The French captain, Arnaud Clement, was forced to turn to Julien Benneteau as his unscheduled substitute yesterday, even though he and Gasquet usually prefer to play on the left-hand side of the doubles court, and thus made a somewhat dysfunctional pairing. Then it fell to Gasquet – a man who had not won a single set in his last four meetings with Federer – to stand in the way of history. He fought hard, but this result was written in the stars.
