BBC Sport - Hull City 2-3 Chelsea
Elmohamady 26′ Hernández 28′
Hazard 2′ Diego Costa 9′ Remy 77′
Thibaut Courtois hands Hull an equaliser after mis-controlling a backpass
22 March 2015 Last updated at 18:22
Thibaut Courtois was indebted to Loic Remy after his late winner extended Chelsea's Premier League lead over Manchester City to six points.
The visitors went two goals ahead after Eden Hazard fired in and Diego Costa curled in his 20th of the season.
But Hull replied with two goals in 74 seconds as Ahmed Elmohamady slid in before Abel Hernandez took advantage of an error by goalkeeper Courtois.
Substitute Remy then beat Allan McGregor to score with his first touch.
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Chelsea in best position of season - Jose Mourinho
The goal, which sneaked through McGregor's legs, papered over an inconsistent display from Jose Mourinho's side, who went from awesome to awful in the space of 28 first-half minutes.
Courtois will be mightily relieved at Remy's strike after the Belgium goalkeeper failed to control Branislav Ivanovic's back pass, inadvertently gifting the ball to the onrushing Hernandez for the equaliser.
And the French striker could become an important figure in the title run-in after he replaced the injured Costa, who had a hamstring problem.
Loic Remy's winner goes agonisingly through Allan McGregor's legs
While the game was not as controversial as the reverse fixture in December where Hull had a man sent off and Hull boss Steve Bruce accused Chelsea players of diving, it was entertainingly robust.
But after Chelsea established a comfortable lead, they appeared to show a fragility which is becoming more common as the season nears its finale.
Hull did not quite have the quality to fully take advantage, and they remain only three points clear of the relegation zone.
If Chelsea can continue the form they showed in the opening 10 minutes, no team are likely to catch them, even if they are still to face Manchester United, Arsenal and Liverpool.
The first goal came after two minutes as Nemanja Matic fed Costa, who laid the ball off to Hazard. The Belgium winger watched the hosts' defence back off, and smashed in from 20 yards for his 16th goal of the season.
Only nine minutes had passed before Chelsea doubled the lead. Cesc Fabregas set Costa free down the left flank and as Michael Dawson retreated, the Spain international curled into the top corner.
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Courtois saves cost Hull game - Steve Bruce
A rout looked possible. Yet, having shown brittleness between the goals when Hernandez was denied by Courtois, the Blues contrived to throw away a two-goal lead.
Courtois could do little for Hull's first goal. Andrew Robertson steamed down the left flank, avoided a flimsy challenge from Ivanovic and delivered a low cross to the back post where Elmohamady tucked in.
The usually reliable Courtois then lost his senses. Ivanovic passed back to the 22-year-old, who tried to take on Hull midfielder Gaston Ramirez and allowed Hernandez to nip in.
Hull had 14 shots to Chelsea's three in the first half and the hosts continued to probe after the break. Courtois pulled off a superb triple save to keep the scores level.
But when Remy came off the bench to score following Willian's centre, it ensured Courtois' error did not prove costly.
Diego Costa limped off with 15 minutes left clutching his hamstring
Ahmed Elmohamady was a constant outlet for Hull on their right
Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho did not look pleased after his side threw away a two-goal lead
Chelsea's Ramires and Hull City's David Meyler take part in a robust encounter
Full Time Match ends, Hull City 2, Chelsea 3.
Full Time Second Half ends, Hull City 2, Chelsea 3.
Offside, Chelsea. Eden Hazard tries a through ball, but Loïc Remy is caught offside.
Foul by Kurt Zouma (Chelsea).
Dame N'Doye (Hull City) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Attempt missed. Dame N'Doye (Hull City) left footed shot from the centre of the box is high and wide to the left. Assisted by Robbie Brady with a cross following a corner.
Booking Nemanja Matic (Chelsea) is shown the yellow card.
Corner, Hull City. Conceded by Kurt Zouma.
Offside, Hull City. Alex Bruce tries a through ball, but Abel Hernández is caught offside.
Branislav Ivanovic (Chelsea) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Sone Aluko (Hull City).
Filipe Luis (Chelsea) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Ahmed Elmohamady (Hull City).
John Terry (Chelsea) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Dame N'Doye (Hull City).
Delay over. They are ready to continue.
Substitution Substitution, Hull City. Sone Aluko replaces Andrew Robertson.
Substitution Substitution, Hull City. Stephen Quinn replaces David Meyler.
Substitution Substitution, Hull City. Robbie Brady replaces Gastón Ramírez.
Substitution Substitution, Chelsea. Kurt Zouma replaces Willian.
Delay in match David Meyler (Hull City) because of an injury.
Attempt blocked. Oscar (Chelsea) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Cesc Fàbregas.
Goal! Goal! Hull City 2, Chelsea 3. Loïc Remy (Chelsea) left footed shot from the centre of the box to the centre of the goal. Assisted by Willian.
Offside, Hull City. David Meyler tries a through ball, but Abel Hernández is caught offside.
Substitution Substitution, Chelsea. Loïc Remy replaces Diego Costa because of an injury.
Attempt missed. Jake Livermore (Hull City) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right. Assisted by Dame N'Doye.
Foul by Oscar (Chelsea).
Gastón Ramírez (Hull City) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Gary Cahill (Chelsea).
Paul McShane (Hull City) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Corner, Chelsea. Conceded by Andrew Robertson.
Attempt blocked. Willian (Chelsea) right footed shot from the right side of the box is blocked. Assisted by Cesc Fàbregas.
Eden Hazard (Chelsea) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Ahmed Elmohamady (Hull City).
Corner, Hull City. Conceded by Gary Cahill.
Foul by Willian (Chelsea).
David Meyler (Hull City) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Corner, Chelsea. Conceded by David Meyler.
Corner, Chelsea. Conceded by Alex Bruce.
Corner, Hull City. Conceded by Thibaut Courtois.
Attempt saved. Gastón Ramírez (Hull City) left footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner.
Attempt saved. Jake Livermore (Hull City) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top centre of the goal.
Attempt saved. Ahmed Elmohamady (Hull City) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. Assisted by Gastón Ramírez.
Substitution Substitution, Chelsea. Oscar replaces Ramires.
Foul by Gary Cahill (Chelsea).
Allan McGregor (Hull City) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Corner, Chelsea. Conceded by David Meyler.
Eden Hazard (Chelsea) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Paul McShane (Hull City).
Diego Costa (Chelsea) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Jake Livermore (Hull City).
Willian (Chelsea) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Ahmed Elmohamady (Hull City).
Offside, Hull City. Gastón Ramírez tries a through ball, but Abel Hernández is caught offside.
Corner, Chelsea. Conceded by Michael Dawson.
Attempt blocked. Diego Costa (Chelsea) header from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by Cesc Fàbregas with a cross.
Attempt missed. Cesc Fàbregas (Chelsea) right footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left. Assisted by Eden Hazard.
Corner, Chelsea. Conceded by Michael Dawson.
Nemanja Matic (Chelsea) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Jake Livermore (Hull City).
Second Half begins Hull City 2, Chelsea 2.
Half Time First Half ends, Hull City 2, Chelsea 2.
Attempt missed. Jake Livermore (Hull City) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the right. Assisted by Gastón Ramírez following a corner.
Attempt blocked. Abel Hernández (Hull City) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.
Attempt missed. Abel Hernández (Hull City) header from the centre of the box misses to the right. Assisted by Gastón Ramírez with a cross following a corner.
Corner, Hull City. Conceded by Nemanja Matic.
Attempt blocked. Gastón Ramírez (Hull City) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
Delay over. They are ready to continue.
Delay in match Dame N'Doye (Hull City) because of an injury.
Foul by Branislav Ivanovic (Chelsea).
Dame N'Doye (Hull City) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Attempt missed. Gastón Ramírez (Hull City) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the right. Assisted by Dame N'Doye.
Willian (Chelsea) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Andrew Robertson (Hull City).
Attempt missed. David Meyler (Hull City) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right following a set piece situation.
Hand ball by Filipe Luis (Chelsea).
Attempt missed. David Meyler (Hull City) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the right. Assisted by Gastón Ramírez.
Eden Hazard (Chelsea) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Gastón Ramírez (Hull City).
Attempt missed. Gastón Ramírez (Hull City) left footed shot from a difficult angle on the left is too high.
Foul by Branislav Ivanovic (Chelsea).
Dame N'Doye (Hull City) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Offside, Hull City. Dame N'Doye tries a through ball, but Abel Hernández is caught offside.
Filipe Luis (Chelsea) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Ahmed Elmohamady (Hull City).
Goal! Goal! Hull City 2, Chelsea 2. Abel Hernández (Hull City) left footed shot from the centre of the box to the centre of the goal.
Foul by Cesc Fàbregas (Chelsea).
David Meyler (Hull City) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Goal! Goal! Hull City 1, Chelsea 2. Ahmed Elmohamady (Hull City) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the centre of the goal. Assisted by Andrew Robertson with a cross.
Corner, Hull City. Conceded by Cesc Fàbregas.
Attempt missed. Diego Costa (Chelsea) header from the centre of the box is too high. Assisted by Filipe Luis with a cross.
Ramires (Chelsea) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Gastón Ramírez (Hull City).
Willian (Chelsea) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Andrew Robertson (Hull City).
Attempt saved. Dame N'Doye (Hull City) header from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Gastón Ramírez with a cross.
Corner, Hull City. Conceded by Thibaut Courtois.
Attempt saved. Dame N'Doye (Hull City) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner.
Booking Gary Cahill (Chelsea) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Foul by Gary Cahill (Chelsea).
Dame N'Doye (Hull City) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Willian (Chelsea).
David Meyler (Hull City) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt missed. Abel Hernández (Hull City) left footed shot from the left side of the box is high and wide to the left. Assisted by Gastón Ramírez.
Goal! Goal! Hull City 0, Chelsea 2. Diego Costa (Chelsea) right footed shot from the left side of the box to the top right corner. Assisted by Cesc Fàbregas.
Eden Hazard (Chelsea) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Dame N'Doye (Hull City).
Attempt saved. Abel Hernández (Hull City) left footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Dame N'Doye with a through ball.
Offside, Hull City. Gastón Ramírez tries a through ball, but Abel Hernández is caught offside.
Goal! Goal! Hull City 0, Chelsea 1. Eden Hazard (Chelsea) left footed shot from outside the box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Diego Costa.
First Half begins.
Lineups are announced and players are warming up.
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
Last updated 22 Mar 2015 UK
View all results
Last updated 22 Mar 2015 UK
View full table
Louis Theroux discusses insanity with a freshly released resident
Mon 23 Mar, 19:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 Live
Women's Super League football, Wed 25 Mar, 19:15 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live sports extra
International football, Wed 25 Mar, 19:45 GMT , BBC Radio 5 live
Catch up with Ski Sunday on the BBC
How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign

