http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/31940379
Sunderland lift Adam Johnson suspension after arrest
Adam Johnson has not played for Sunderland since his arrest on 2 March
18 March 2015 Last updated at 16:55
Sunderland's Adam Johnson has returned to training after the club lifted his suspension following his arrest.
The 27-year-old England international had been suspended by the club after he was arrested on suspicion of sexual activity with a 15-year-old girl.
The club held talks with the Professional Footballers' Association (PFA) and Johnson's representatives after his police bail was extended.
He will be available to play for new manager Dick Advocaat this weekend.
"We recognise that the player is entitled to re-commence his duties with the club while the legal process continues. He will therefore return to training," a club statement said.
"The club's own investigation cannot continue until the conclusion of the legal process."
Sunderland, who appointed Advocaat on Tuesday after sacking Gus Poyet the previous day, travel to West Ham United in the Premier League on Saturday.
Former Manchester City winger Johnson was arrested on 2 March and questioned at a police station close to his County Durham home.
He was immediately suspended by the club and has not played for Sunderland since.
Speaking after Johnson's arrest, Poyet described the day as one of the most difficult in his career.
Johnson is due to report back to police at 10:00 GMT on Thursday, 23 April while the investigation continues.
A Durham police spokesperson said: "Sunderland AFC informed us this morning of their decision, which of course is a matter entirely for the club.
"The police investigation remains very much live and ongoing and a man remains on bail while enquiries continue."
Find out the full list of award winners
Women’s Super League 2, Wed 18 Mar, 18:30 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live sports extra
Champions League, Wed 18 March, 19:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Champions League, Wed 18 March, 19:45 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Scottish Cup replay, Wed 18 Mar, 19:45 GMT, BBC Radio Scotland (MW)
Fri 20 March, 19:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Sat 21 Mar, 07:40 GMT, CBBC
Catch up with Ski Sunday on the BBC
How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign
