http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/31950048
Gareth Bale has nothing to prove for Wales, says Chris Coleman
Gareth Bale has won 48 caps for Wales, scoring 14 goals
18 March 2015 Last updated at 16:58
Gareth Bale can cope with criticism at Real Madrid and has nothing to prove for Wales, says manager Chris Coleman.
Bale, 25, has been the subject of some criticism in the Spanish media of late, but responded with two goals against Levante on Sunday.
As Wales prepare for a crucial Euro 2016 qualifier in Israel on 28 March, Coleman says Bale's club fortunes will not affect his international form.
"He's got no points to prove from us," said Coleman.
"His fight in Madrid and what he has to prove every time he goes on the pitch there is separate to us.
"With us, he just has to keep doing what he's doing. We each have points to prove when we go to work but I'd be on dangerous ground if I said to Gareth, 'I need a bit more from you'."
Bale had gone eight matches without a goal for Real Madrid before scoring his brace against Levante.
He celebrated his first strike by covering his ears and kicking the corner flag in an apparent response to recent criticism.
"If you play for Real Madrid, you have to entertain every time you go on the pitch - win and entertain," said Coleman.
Gareth Bale (right) joined Real Madrid from Tottenham for a world-record fee of £85m in 2013
"Winning and not playing well is not acceptable, so the stakes are high. Gareth's a big boy, he'll come through that.
"People can say he's had a bad season but he's in the quarter-finals of the Champions League, still has a chance to win La Liga, [scored] 16 goals and goodness knows how many assists," said Coleman.
"Anywhere else than Real Madrid and he's doing really well. Throw into that he's also the most expensive player and signed by the president.
"But I honestly have no worries about Gareth. He's the last person I'd worry about."
In the build up to their Euro 2016 qualifier in Haifa, Israel coach Eli Guttman said Bale was saving his best for Wales.
But Coleman is not reading too much into those comments.
"For the Israel coach to say that, I can't say he's going to pay any more special attention to Gareth - I'm sure they would have anyway," he added.
"It's not just his performance. You look at his body language when he's with us, when we score, when we win. He's thrilled.
"From our point of view, there's not much more we can ask from Baley."

Women’s Super League 2, Wed 18 Mar, 18:30 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live sports extra
Champions League, Wed 18 March, 19:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Champions League, Wed 18 March, 19:45 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Scottish Cup replay, Wed 18 Mar, 19:45 GMT, BBC Radio Scotland (MW)
Fri 20 March, 19:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Sat 21 Mar, 07:40 GMT, CBBC
Catch up with Ski Sunday on the BBC
How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign
