Juventus v Genoa
Tévez 25′
Carlos Tevez is the top scorer in Serie A, with 16 league goals for Juventus
22 March 2015 Last updated at 21:58
Carlos Tevez continued his fine form with his 24th goal of the season as Juventus beat Genoa to stay 14 points clear at the top of Serie A.
Tevez, 31, scored twice in Juve's Champions League win in Dortmund in midweek and was the key man again.
The former Manchester City forward broke the deadlock by weaving into the penalty area and firing in off the underside of the crossbar.
He also had a second-half penalty saved but Juve held on to win comfortably.
Juve were without influential midfielder Paul Pogba - starting a two-month injury lay-off - but still had enough to see off Genoa.
Tevez's brilliant individual goal put them on course for a 20th league win of the season and Massimiliano Allegri's side look set for a fourth title in a row.
Juve temporarily extended their lead at the top of the table but in Sunday evening's match Daniele De Rossi scored as Roma beat Cesena 1-0 to close the gap again.
2014-15
28
20
7
1
67
2013-14
38
33
3
2
102
2012-13
38
27
6
5
87
2011-12
38
23
15
0
84
Tevez also had a second-half penalty saved by Eugenio Lamanna
Full Time Match ends, Juventus 1, Genoa 0.
Full Time Second Half ends, Juventus 1, Genoa 0.
Foul by Roberto Pereyra (Juventus).
Juraj Kucka (Genoa) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt missed. Carlos Tévez (Juventus) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right.
Foul by Stefano Sturaro (Juventus).
Edenilson (Genoa) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Offside, Genoa. Juraj Kucka tries a through ball, but Marco Borriello is caught offside.
Substitution Substitution, Juventus. Stefano Sturaro replaces Arturo Vidal.
Offside, Juventus. Giorgio Chiellini tries a through ball, but Alessandro Matri is caught offside.
Carlos Tévez (Juventus) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Edenilson (Genoa).
Corner, Genoa. Conceded by Giorgio Chiellini.
Attempt blocked. Facundo Roncaglia (Genoa) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Andrea Bertolacci.
Offside, Genoa. Eugenio Lamanna tries a through ball, but Marco Borriello is caught offside.
Foul by Simone Pepe (Juventus).
Sebastien De Maio (Genoa) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt missed. Andrea Bertolacci (Genoa) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the left. Assisted by Marco Borriello.
Corner, Genoa. Conceded by Andrea Barzagli.
Simone Padoin (Juventus) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Diego Laxalt (Genoa).
Attempt blocked. Arturo Vidal (Juventus) left footed shot from the right side of the box is blocked. Assisted by Alessandro Matri.
Attempt saved. Alessandro Matri (Juventus) header from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Simone Pepe with a cross.
Alessandro Matri (Juventus) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Juraj Kucka (Genoa).
Simone Padoin (Juventus) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Marco Borriello (Genoa).
Carlos Tévez (Juventus) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Juraj Kucka (Genoa).
Substitution Substitution, Juventus. Alessandro Matri replaces Fernando Llorente.
Substitution Substitution, Juventus. Simone Pepe replaces Stephan Lichtsteiner.
Foul by Fernando Llorente (Juventus).
Nicolas Burdisso (Genoa) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Marco Borriello (Genoa).
Giorgio Chiellini (Juventus) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Attempt missed. Diego Perotti (Genoa) right footed shot from the left side of the box is high and wide to the right. Assisted by Marco Borriello.
Substitution Substitution, Genoa. Diego Laxalt replaces Maxime Lestienne.
Offside, Juventus. Leonardo Bonucci tries a through ball, but Arturo Vidal is caught offside.
Corner, Juventus. Conceded by Juraj Kucka.
Attempt blocked. Fernando Llorente (Juventus) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.
Foul by Fernando Llorente (Juventus).
Nicolas Burdisso (Genoa) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Penalty saved! Carlos Tévez (Juventus) fails to capitalise on this great opportunity, right footed shot saved in the bottom left corner.
Booking Facundo Roncaglia (Genoa) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Penalty Juventus. Roberto Pereyra draws a foul in the penalty area.
Penalty conceded by Facundo Roncaglia (Genoa) after a foul in the penalty area.
Foul by Andrea Bertolacci (Genoa).
Giorgio Chiellini (Juventus) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt missed. Roberto Pereyra (Juventus) left footed shot from the right side of the box is high and wide to the left.
Substitution Substitution, Genoa. Eugenio Lamanna replaces Mattia Perin because of an injury.
Delay over. They are ready to continue.
Delay in match Mattia Perin (Genoa) because of an injury.
Corner, Juventus. Conceded by Nicolas Burdisso.
Booking Leonardo Bonucci (Juventus) is shown the yellow card.
Booking Marco Borriello (Genoa) is shown the yellow card.
Foul by Marco Borriello (Genoa).
Leonardo Bonucci (Juventus) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Sebastien De Maio (Genoa) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Fernando Llorente (Juventus).
Second Half begins Juventus 1, Genoa 0.
Substitution Substitution, Genoa. Marco Borriello replaces M'Baye Niang.
Half Time First Half ends, Juventus 1, Genoa 0.
Giorgio Chiellini (Juventus) hits the bar with a right footed shot from the left side of the six yard box following a corner.
Attempt saved. Fernando Llorente (Juventus) header from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner. Assisted by Stephan Lichtsteiner.
Corner, Juventus. Conceded by Zakarya Bergdich.
Attempt missed. Maxime Lestienne (Genoa) left footed shot from outside the box misses to the left. Assisted by Edenilson following a set piece situation.
Edenilson (Genoa) wins a free kick on the right wing.
Foul by Arturo Vidal (Juventus).
Foul by Sebastien De Maio (Genoa).
Fernando Llorente (Juventus) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt saved. Diego Perotti (Genoa) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom right corner. Assisted by Andrea Bertolacci.
Corner, Juventus. Conceded by Zakarya Bergdich.
Foul by Diego Perotti (Genoa).
Simone Padoin (Juventus) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Maxime Lestienne (Genoa).
Giorgio Chiellini (Juventus) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by Fernando Llorente (Juventus).
Nicolas Burdisso (Genoa) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt blocked. M'Baye Niang (Genoa) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Maxime Lestienne.
Foul by Claudio Marchisio (Juventus).
Diego Perotti (Genoa) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
Foul by Nicolas Burdisso (Genoa).
Stephan Lichtsteiner (Juventus) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Corner, Genoa. Conceded by Simone Padoin.
Foul by Claudio Marchisio (Juventus).
Juraj Kucka (Genoa) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Attempt missed. Stephan Lichtsteiner (Juventus) left footed shot from the right side of the box is too high.
Goal! Goal! Juventus 1, Genoa 0. Carlos Tévez (Juventus) right footed shot from the right side of the box to the top right corner. Assisted by Roberto Pereyra.
Delay over. They are ready to continue.
Delay in match Carlos Tévez (Juventus) because of an injury.
Booking Andrea Bertolacci (Genoa) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
Foul by Andrea Bertolacci (Genoa).
Arturo Vidal (Juventus) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Foul by M'Baye Niang (Genoa).
Arturo Vidal (Juventus) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
Corner, Genoa. Conceded by Simone Padoin.
Attempt missed. Facundo Roncaglia (Genoa) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the left.
Attempt blocked. Andrea Bertolacci (Genoa) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Facundo Roncaglia.
Attempt missed. Giorgio Chiellini (Juventus) header from the centre of the box is too high. Assisted by Claudio Marchisio with a cross following a set piece situation.
Carlos Tévez (Juventus) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Foul by Edenilson (Genoa).
Booking Diego Perotti (Genoa) is shown the yellow card.
Diego Perotti (Genoa) has gone down, but that's a dive.
Foul by Leonardo Bonucci (Juventus).
Diego Perotti (Genoa) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Attempt missed. Arturo Vidal (Juventus) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right.
Hand ball by Facundo Roncaglia (Genoa).
Attempt blocked. Fernando Llorente (Juventus) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by Leonardo Bonucci.
Offside, Juventus. Claudio Marchisio tries a through ball, but Fernando Llorente is caught offside.
Corner, Juventus. Conceded by Juraj Kucka.
Carlos Tévez (Juventus) wins a free kick on the left wing.
Nicolas Burdisso (Genoa).
Attempt missed. M'Baye Niang (Genoa) right footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the right.
First Half begins.
Lineups are announced and players are warming up.
Live data and text provided by our data suppliers
Last updated 22 Mar 2015 UK
View all results
Last updated 22 Mar 2015 UK

