http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-31928476#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa
Hillsborough inquests: David Duckenfield admits causing 96 deaths
The Hillsborough police match commander has agreed his failure to close a tunnel "was the direct cause of the deaths of 96 people".
David Duckenfield also accepted he "froze" during the afternoon of the 1989 football disaster.
Mr Duckenfield was giving evidence for a sixth day at the new Hillsborough inquests in Warrington, Cheshire.
He was being questioned by Paul Greaney QC on behalf of the Police Federation of England and Wales.
Mr Duckenfield, now 70, had earlier denied claims he "bottled it" and "panicked" as the disaster unfolded.
The jury was told the former chief superintendent had at least three minutes to "consider the consequences" of opening an exit gate at the stadium, as a crowd of fans built up outside.
Mr Greaney suggested a child of "average intelligence" could have realised what would happen when the gate, which allowed up to 2,000 fans to enter, was opened.
But Mr Duckenfield said he did "not think of it on the day" because of the pressure he was under.
He had "no idea" Liverpool fans would head through the gate for a tunnel which led to the already-packed terraces, he told the jury.
When asked by Mr Greaney if his failure to take steps to close the tunnel entrance was the direct cause of the deaths of 96 people, Mr Duckenfield replied "yes sir".
Ninety-six Liverpool fans died after crushing at the FA Cup semi final match between Liverpool and Nottingham Forest held at Hillsborough.
Mr Greaney asked Mr Duckenfield if he had been incompetent in his role on the day of the disaster.
The retired officer answered: "I think it is a view some would agree with sir."
Mr Greaney accused Mr Duckenfield of "concealing" his full knowledge of the geography of the ground from the jury, which he denied.
When asked by the barrister if he "simply froze", Mr Duckenfield said he thought it would be "fair to say that we were all in a state of shock."
It was the match commander's job to "get past any feelings of shock", Mr Greaney said.
"Yes, sir, but I am human," Mr Duckenfield replied.
Earlier in the inquests, he admitted he had lied about fans forcing an exit gate open to enter the ground.
He issued a long apology to the families of the victims, who have been campaigning for 26 years to establish more detail about what happened during the disaster.
John Beggs QC, representing Mr Duckenfield, said: "I think you understand, don't you, why the delay in providing a more gracious and more full apology has caused to many both offence and distress? You understand that?"
"I fully understand that sir," Mr Duckenfield said.
The jury heard how the former police officer struggled to sleep in the run-up to the 1989 Taylor Inquiry into the disaster, and at one stage was drinking "half tumblers of whisky" to "find the courage" to read statements.
The court heard he was medically retired from South Yorkshire Police on 10 November 1991, two years after being suspended from duty.
He was certified by a force doctor as "unfit to undertake the duties of a police constable" and was diagnosed with "severe depression and post-traumatic stress disorder".
BBC News: Profiles of all those who died
Mr Duckenfield agreed he saw his diagnosis as a "sign of weakness" and tried to "conceal" his conditions from his family and colleagues.
He said it was a "matter of pride" and that he was "very ashamed and embarrassed by it all".
The jury has also heard Mr Duckenfield was interviewed under criminal caution in March last year by officers from Operation Resolve, the ongoing police inquiry into the disaster.
Mr Beggs asked him whether it had "been easy for the last five and a half days to admit that your professional failings led to the deaths of 96 innocent men, women and children and injuries to many more".
"Has that been easy, Mr Duckenfield, for you?" he said.
"Sir, it's been the most difficult period of my life," Mr Duckenfield said.
The inquests are scheduled to continue on Wednesday.
A bereaved father who lost his son in the Hillsborough disaster receives a personal apology from police match commander David Duckenfield after confronting him outside court.
ACTIVITY FINDER
WED 18 MAR
Greenbank
WED 18 MAR
Greenbank
See Liverpool Activities >
To get live updates you must enable Javascript.
That's it from the Local Live team for another day - thanks for your company.
We will be back with the usual mix of news, sport, travel and weather from around Merseyside at 08:00 on Thursday.
Until then, have a lovely evening.
Whatever you're up to, you'll be wanting to know what the weather's going to be like - here's Merseyside's latest forecast:
A dry evening and night is in store, with clear spells and light winds allowing some mist and fog patches to form.
It will also be a cold nigh,t with a patchy frost developing.
Runcorn and Widnes can boast, if that's the right word, being two of the most adulterous towns in the UK.
According to the Official Infidelity Index 2015, compiled by an adult website, 1.74% of Runcorn's population have had been unfaithful, making it the fifth most adulterous town in the UK out of 140.
Widnes, meanwhile, came 14th in the index with 1.39% of its population cheating on their partners.
What's wrong with a nice cup of tea and a night in front of Stargazing on the telly?
You wait for one astronomical spectacle... and then you get this:
Less than 24 hours after the Northern Lights danced over the UK, BBC Stargazing returns - and has tweeted this ahead of the partial solar eclipse on Friday.
Professor Brian Cox, Dara O Briain and - it seems - the Clangers will be ready to guide you through the galaxy (and beyond) from 20:00 on BBC Two at Jodrell Bank, Cheshire.
A Southport animal lover has been reunited with her cat - five years after he went missing, thanks to social media.
Jane Linley had given up hope of ever seeing the ginger cat Diego again after he escaped in 2010 when sofa delivery men let him out accidentally.
She recognised his "unusual markings" on a picture posted on Rescue Me Animal Sanctuary's Facebook page.
On tonight's programme, we examine Chancellor George Osborne's Budget claim that a job is being created in the North West "every 10 minutes".
We'll also have the latest from the Hillsborough inquests, where a bereaved father who lost his son in the disaster received a personal apology from police match commander David Duckenfield.
And why always him? Liverpool striker Mario Balotelli is back on social media - what has he been saying this time?
All that and more from 6.30pm on BBC One.
Have the Northern Lights been spotted in Liverpool?
Robert Ward captured this picture at about 11.30 last night in Kemp Avenue, Anfield.
Will they be back again tonight? We'll bring you the latest weather forecast just before we finish for the evening at six.
The Football Association will talk to Fifa this week about extending the emergency loan system which many lower league clubs believe is vital to their existence.
Tranmere Rovers have used the most emergency loans in League Two this season.
Merseyside Police and its partners, including Knowsley, Liverpool, Wirral, Sefton and St Helens councils, have launched "Listen to My Story", a campaign to raise awareness of Child Sexual Exploitation (CSE) among young people, parents and grandparents and members of the public.
The campaign, which has been funded by Merseyside's Police Commissioner Jane Kennedy, aims to help victims find support and advice. More information can be found can be found here.
A total of £1m is set to be awarded to voluntary and community groups in Liverpool to run youth and play projects over the next year.
A report to the city council's cabinet is recommending 26 projects be granted funding to run schemes including youth clubs, play schemes and educational activities and workshops.
Funding has also been given to run a number of city-wide targeted play projects for groups working with young people with disabilities and facing discrimination. They include Calder Kids, the Young Persons Advisory Service and Merseyside Play Action Council.
A father who lost his son in the Hillsborough disaster has confronted the former match commander outside the new inquests.
Barry Devonside - whose 18-year-old son Christopher died in the 1989 tragedy - demanded David Duckenfield explain why it had taken almost 26 years for him to apologise to the 96 families.
A man armed with a spade fled empty-handed after a botched robbery attempt at a Runcorn petrol station.
Police have released CCTV images of two men they would like to speak to about the incident, which happened at about 4.50am on Saturday, 7 March at the Bridge Retail Park on Thomas Jones Way.
Severe disruption continues on Cambridge Road around its junction with Preston New Road because of the sewer collapse we reported earlier.
Emergency repairs are being made, and drivers can keep up to date with the latest from the scene here.
St Helens centre Mark Percival will be out for six weeks with his knee injury, while Luke Walsh is still not ready to return from his long-term lay off.
Hooker James Roby returns after his knock and forward Kyle Amor is back from suspension.
Warrington head coach Tony Smith has named the same 19-man squad to select from after beating Leeds last week.
Wolves have lost just once in Super League so far this season, while top-of-the-table Saints are unbeaten.
Defender John Stones and winger Aiden McGeady return to Everton's squad for the second leg of their last-16 Europa League tie at Dynamo Kiev.
McGeady is back after missing nine games while Stones has missed two but Kevin Mirallas is out with a knock from the first leg which Everton won 2-1.
Tony Hibbert, Bryan Oviedo and Steven Pienaar are still absent as Everton, the last British survivors, bid to reach the quarter-finals.
The cup-tied Aaron Lennon can't play.
Police arrested six people for a breach of the peace after a fight followed a St Patrick's Day party in Liverpool.
Officers were called to a "minor disturbance" on Brompton Avenue near Sefton Park.
A mum who burgled a disabled pensioner's home in Southport before running away, pushing her baby in a pram, has been jailed for nearly three years.
Kelly Tilley, 31, left her child waiting outside her 74-year-old victim's house while she stole his wallet containing £550.
How often did cities in the North come up in the 2015 Budget compared with London's 50 mentions?
Manchester: 25, Leeds: 15, Sheffield: 9, Hull: 7, Liverpool: 4.
A father who lost his son in the Hillsborough disaster has confronted the former match commander outside court at the new inquests.
Barry Devonside - whose son Christopher died - demanded that David Duckenfield explain why it had taken almost 26 years for him to apologise to the families.
As part of School Report News Day 2015, pupils from The Observatory School in the Wirral are travelling by boat from their school in Bidston to MediaCityUK in Salford, where they will dock before appearing on BBC Breakfast tomorrow.
A crew of 14, including four School Reporters - Year 11 pupils Daniel, Jerome, Callum and Rocky - are making the 38-mile journey, which includes two miles on the Mersey and 36 on the Manchester Ship Canal.
Court evidence has finished for the day. Policing expert Douglas Hopkins will continue in the witness box tomorrow.
Policing expert Douglas Hopkins says that 1,200 officers (38%) of South Yorkshire Police policed the Hillsborough match and says this was excessive.
David Duckenfield would have been better to have sent his deputy out and about than keeping him in the control box, added Mr Hopkins.
Petrol duty has been frozen - September's planned increase has been scrapped.
The tax-free personal allowance is to rise from £10,600 in 2014-5 to £10,800 in 2015-6 and £11,000 in 2016-7.
You can see other key points of the Budget 2015 at-a-glance here.
A bereaved father who lost his son in the Hillsborough disaster has received a personal apology from the police match commander David Duckenfield.
Barry Devonside's son Chris was 18 when he was fatally injured along with 95 other fans in the 1989 crush.
Mr Devonside confronted Mr Duckenfield as he left the coroner's court to ask him why it had taken him so long to say sorry for his role in the disaster.
"He apologised to me and said, 'I can't say any more'," Mr Devonshire said.
Double the chances of promotion, add a sprinkling of international talent and you have the recipe for a bigger and better Women's Super League Two season.
Everton, who won the Women's FA Cup as recently as 2010, are leading the charge to promotion as they look to make an immediate return to WSL1.
Gabby George (pictured right) and the Blues were beaten 2-0 by Arsenal in last year's FA Women's Cup final at Stadium:MK before being relegated at the end of the season.
But the Toffees face stiff opposition for a place in the top two who will be promoted. Read why here.
Here's the story of today's hearing so far at the Hillsborough inquests, where former chief superintendent David Duckenfield agreed he was "inexperienced" and faced "unimaginably difficult circumstances".
Mr Duckenfield, who has now finished giving evidence after seven days, added he was working to a "flawed operational (match) order".
A campaign to help victims of historical sexual abuse is being launched on Merseyside.
Police are working with health and education professionals to offer support and to make others more aware of the issue.
The Hillsborough inquests have been told the reason the greater number of Liverpool fans were given the smaller end at the Sheffield stadium rather than Nottingham Forest was so that segregation could be better achieved.
The seat allocation was also made because of the geographical direction from which the Liverpool and Nottingham Forest fans were arriving. Liverpool complained.
George Osborne has outlined his vision for building a "northern powerhouse" in his final budget ahead of the general election in May.
Labour leader Ed Miliband said it was a budget that "simply won't be believed".
A man has been summoned to appear in court over allegations he flew a drone over London landmarks and at several football grounds during matches - including three involving Liverpool.
Nigel Wilson, 42, from Nottingham, is accused of 17 breaches of the Air Navigation Order, Scotland Yard said.
He will appear at Westminster Magistrates' Court on 16 April.
Mr Hopkins says hooliganism caused a "great increase in police" - some took place in stadiums, some happened outside.
Policing expert Douglas Hopkins tells the Hillsborough inquests hooliganism in the 1980s led to the need to bring in strict segregation. Pitch invasions weren't commonplace.
He says Liverpool supporters in the 1980s were "a boisterous passionate side" who "did not have a large hooligan group".
Tranmere Rovers have "nine cup finals left" to maintain their Football League status, says midfielder Max Power.
Despite having captain Steve Jennings sent off late on, Rovers won 2-1 at Cambridge to move out of the League Two relegation places on goal difference.
The Hillsborough inquests have resumed and the jury will now hear from policing expert Douglas Hopkins, a former football match commander for the Metropolitan Police.
He was the safety officer in charge of the Olympic Stadium at the London 2012 Games.
A father who lost his son in the Hillsborough disaster has confronted the former match commander outside court at the new inquests.
An investigation into the death of a man whose body lay undiscovered by Fazakerley railway station for a decade has been launched.
James Morrell was reported missing in July 2005 when he was last seen walking from a ward at Fazakerley hospital. The dad-of-two from Crosby was aged 43 when he disappeared.
Bereaved Hillsborough father Barry Devonside (left), who lost his son Christopher in the 1989 disaster, confronted David Duckenfield (right) as he left court this lunchtime.
Former Ch Supt Duckenfield, who was the police match commander when 96 Liverpool fans were fatally injured in the tragedy, has just finished giving seven days of evidence at the inquests in Warrington.
Mr Devonside asked Mr Duckenfield why it had taken him so long to apologise for his role in the disaster.
A Wirral man who downloaded disgusting child porn images despite having been on an intensive course to prevent such behaviour has received a lengthy jail sentence.
Andrew Contento was given a three-year community order and had a Sexual Offences Prevention Order imposed in 2009 for downloading indecent images of children.
Liverpool Crown Court heard that he broke conditions of the order, which was discovered when he was stopped by police while driving in Bromborough in October.
Armed police officers on Merseyside were called out to more than 700 incidents last year.
Merseyside Police said "in the vast majority" of the 735 cases, officers were able to resolve situations through negotiation and the decision to fire a gun was never taken lightly.
The Super League Show meets the four Widnes Vikings players juggling professional rugby league with the responsibility of fatherhood.
Chris Dean, Lloyd White, Paul Johnson and Ben Kavanagh all welcomed new additions to their families in the off-season and are loving life as the 'Dad's Army' thanks to the support of their partners, family and team-mates.
On the field, Widnes have made a mixed start, with a thumping victory against Wakefield and an impressive draw with Wigan offset by defeats by St Helens, Leeds and Huddersfield.
The quartet are convinced things are moving in a positive direction under head coach Denis Betts.
Everton fans face problems getting to their Europa League game in Ukraine tomorrow because of a pilot strike.
Staff at German airline Lufthansa are on strike for two days because of a row over their early retirement benefits.
It means Blues supporters could see their flights to Kiev grounded.
tweets: BUDGET: George Osborne tells Commons that economy in North grew faster than the South over last 12 months.
Heather Mills has slated her ex-husband and Beatles legend Sir Paul McCartney by saying he only performs with Rihanna because young people have no idea who he is.
She also said: "This is just someone I fell in love with, who to me was a normal guy, who happened to write a few cool songs in the 60s and a few in the 70s."
Macca fans have taken to Twitter to vent their anger against Mills.
The Highways Agency say the swan that was on the M6 was "removed to safety" with the help of motorway police and traffic in the area is now "flowing" again.
Two lanes were blocked on the M6 southbound at J21A M62 (Croft Interchange) because of a swan. All lanes are now open again.
Ahead of it being given the freedom of Liverpool, here's a picture of St Paul's Eye Hospital in 1920.
The hospital opened as St Paul's Eye and Ear Infirmary in 1871 and became the St Paul's Eye Unit when its original site was closed and services were moved to the Royal Liverpool University Hospital.
The hospital treated 144 patients in its first year. Nowadays, the unit helps about 100,000 people a year.
Representatives from the unit will receive the honour from the city at a ceremony later.
Liverpool are rumoured to be keeping an eye on contract talks between a pacy Argentine winger and his club, according to the Daily Mirror.
Find out more in today's football gossip column.
We will continue to bring you updates from the new Hillsborough inquests but will now return to our usual mix of news, sport, travel and weather.
The Chancellor, George Osborne, has promised to deliver a "truly national recovery" ahead of his last Budget before the general election.
His Budget statement has been signed off by the cabinet and he's due to start his speech in the Commons in just under half an hour's time.
Follow live updates on the Budget here.
Christina Lambert QC has finished her questions and David Duckenfield has finished giving his evidence. He has now left the witness box.
Mr Duckenfield said the match "was arguably the event of the year other than a royal visit".
He agreed that a knowledge of the layout of the stadium was important and basic information that might have influenced decision-making.
He said he didn't know which areas were fed by turnstiles A-G. He said that was "basic" information that "would have been nice to have".
The coroner's barrister is asking David Duckenfield about other responsibilities which fell within his area - a hospital and university in Sheffield.
He says he can't recall if either demanded his attention during the 19 days between starting his new job as chief superintendent and the disaster.
The jury has had a short break in proceedings and now David Duckenfield is being re-questioned by Christina Lambert QC, on behalf of the coroner.
John Beggs QC asked Mr Duckenfield: "When you went to Hillsborough on the morning of 15 April 1989, was the very last outcome that you envisaged or wished for, death or injury to a single football supporter in those central pens?"
Mr Duckenfield replied: "I didn't want that at all, sir."
John Beggs QC said: "In front of this jury, many family members in court, many many lawyers and journalists, you've admitted to some serious professional failures."
Mr Duckenfield: "Yes, sir."
Mr Beggs QC: "Do you agree that they were in circumstances where you were new and inexperienced?"
David Duckenfield: "Yes, sir."
Mr Duckenfield claims he did "his best" and never told any other police officers how to record their evidence in relation to Hillsborough.
He said he was never asked to change his own statement and "had no part in a conspiracy" - nor did he know of any.
Mr Beggs QC asked: "Whatever else is said about you, you wouldn't have authorised calling of police dogs if you thought it was a medical emergency?"
Mr Duckenfield : "No."
When an officer ran onto the pitch to stop the match at about 15:05, Mr Duckenfield said he was still "unaware of what precisely was going on".
When the assistant chief constable asked Mr Duckenfield at 15:07 what was going on, he didn't know. He tells the court he may have said it was a pitch invasion.
Mr Duckenfield says the reason why the call was made for dogs at 15:04 was that at that stage, it was still thought possible it was public disorder.
Mr Beggs QC asked Mr Duckenfield: "Is the tragic reality that it simply didn't cross your mind where the supporters would go upon entering the concourse?"
He answered: "Yes, sir."
Mr Beggs continued: "This isn't an excuse; this isn't passing the buck, but none of you in that control box realised what was going to happen, did you?"
Mr Duckenfield replied: "No, sir."
David Duckenfield has been asked again about the opening of exit gate C.
He said he felt he had "no choice at all" when the final plea was made to open it. He said it did it "to save lives".
None of the other officers in the police box told him to close the central tunnel first before opening the gate and he did not consider the central pens to be overcrowded when he opened the gate, Mr Duckenfield said.
David Duckenfield says he cannot remember whether he ever formally decided not to delay the kick off, but agrees it would have been preferable.
The police match commander at the Hillsborough disaster says he'd never monitored crowds in pens at a capacity match before the FA Cup semi-final.
David Duckenfield's told the jury he had not received any training in how to do it either.
The jury hears that in David Duckenfield's oral briefing to officers at Hillsborough he was "preoccupied" with segregation. He stressed it three times.
The jury hears Mr Duckenfield's deputy, Supt Bernard Murray, recalled saying in the control box at 14:30 that "there's a good crowd down there, but we will get them in for 15:00".
The evidence of Liverpool supporter Phillip Duggan is re-read. He was in pen 3 and said that whilst some people were being crushed, others were oblivious.
John Beggs QC, for Mr Duckenfield, suggests that this evidence shows it was "difficult to appreciate the level of congestion" in the pens.
David Duckenfield says none of the four experienced officers in the control box with him told him there was a problem with the crowd in the pens.
He agrees that no Sheffield Wednesday staff alerted him to any problem in the pens either.
John Beggs QC asked: "Did any message come to you from any source at all that there were problems with how those pens were filling?"
Mr Duckenfield replied: "No."
Mr Duckenfield also says he had never monitored crowds in pens at a capacity match, nor had he been trained how to.
Looking at Mr Duckenfield's pre-match briefing, the jury hears his "preoccupation" was segregation of the fans and avoiding fighting.
He agrees that he was not contemplating a crisis relating to crushing, when he had his briefing.
John Beggs QC starts to ask David Duckenfield about the "missing hours" that he says he cannot recall, between 10:00 and 14:00 on the day of the disaster.
The court was told that another police witness gave evidence earlier that the former chief superintendent spent the time walking around the ground.
Answering questions from his own barrister, David Duckenfield agrees police orders for the FA Cup semi-final were drawn up by his predecessor, Ch Supt Brian Mole, and "passed to him for signature".
He also repeats that he did not know about the crushing at Hillsborough that happened at the 1981 FA Cup semi-final.
The police match commander who was in charge during the Hillsborough disaster, who admitted his failures caused the deaths of 96 people, has returned to court for a seventh day this morning.
After last week's apologies to the families, yesterday's admission from David Duckenfield went even further.
He'd previously told the court that his mistake in failing to block off a tunnel which led to the central pens was a "contributory factor" to the disaster.
But under questioning from a lawyer for the police federation he admitted it was a "direct cause" of the 96 deaths.
He's expected to finish giving his evidence later.
I am back at the Hillsborough inquests where David Duckenfield is continuing to be questioned by his own barrister John Beggs QC.
David Duckenfield agreed yesterday at the new Hillsborough inquests that he "froze" after giving the order for an exit gate to be opened.
A lawyer told him "a child of average intelligence" could realise what the consequences of that decision might be.
When Paul Greaney QC put it to the former match commander that his failure to close the tunnel leading to the central pens on the terrace was "the direct cause of the deaths of 96 people," he replied, "Yes, sir".
Mr Duckenfield will return to the witness box this morning.
George Osborne is due to deliver the final Budget of this Parliament at 12:30.
You can read live updates from BBC News before, during and after the speech here.
Police officers on Merseyside are on alert for Sunday's crunch clash between Liverpool and Manchester United after a number of well-known United hooligans saw their banning orders expire.
The match between the two fierce rivals, which carries the highest security risk rating, kicks-off at Anfield at 1.30pm.
Along with the usual bragging rights, this season it also features the added tension of both sides being in direct competition for a Champions League spot.
St Paul's Eye Unit was nominated for the freedom of the city by former Lord Mayor of Liverpool Roger Johnston.
Mr Johnston, who has type 2 diabetes, credits the eye clinic with saving his eyesight after it diagnosed diabetic retinopathy.
Prof Simon Harding (pictured), from the centre, said the award was "testament to the dedication and talent of our staff".
He made headlines as the cheeky Scouser who cycled up to Princess Diana on a visit to Liverpool 20 years ago and stole a kiss.
But seven years later, Paul Fahy was in the news for very different reasons, when he disappeared without a trace leaving behind his broken hearted family.
"And I love him and I miss him every bloody day," says his mum.
Sandra Howarth has never given up hope that one day her son will pick up the phone to say he is okay.
Chester dropped down the table after a last-gasp own goal from Dartford defender Kingsley James gave the Blues all three points.
Dozens of NHS patients diagnosed with cancer last year in Warrington and Halton waited longer than the expected two-month period before starting treatment, according to a new analysis of official figures.
In the Warrington and Halton Hospital Trust area last year, a total of 53 patients waited too long for chemotherapy, radiotherapy and other forms of treatment for cancer - a worrying increase of 10% on the previous year.
A former senior police officer, who admitted his failures caused the deaths of 96 people at the Hillsborough disaster, will return to court for a seventh day this morning.
Yesterday, the inquests heard David Duckenfield "froze" after giving the order for an exit gate to be opened.
Liverpool striker Mario Balotelli has taken to Instagram to launch a bizarre attack on his critics.
The Italy international posted a video, responding to the avalanche of criticism he has been subjected to since his move to Anfield last summer.
Tranmere moved out of the League Two relegation zone as they ended a five-game losing streak at Cambridge, despite having captain Steve Jennings sent off for a second booking.
An eye hospital in Liverpool is to be given the freedom of the city later.
St Paul's Eye Unit, which is based at the Royal Liverpool University Hospital, opened in 1871 and representatives are to be presented with the award at Liverpool Town Hall.
Lord Mayor of Liverpool Erica Kemp said the unit's "reputation for world class excellence" deserved to be recognised.
The A5267 Cambridge Road in Churchtown is closed in both directions between the B5244 Cambridge Road junction and the A565 Preston New Road junction because of a sewer collapse and emergency repairs, drivers are warned.
Any early mist or fog will clear to leave a mainly dry day with some sunny spells. However, a very isolated light shower is possible during the afternoon. Winds will be light throughout the day.
There will be highs of 8°C (46°F). More about the outlook for the next few days is here.
After admitting his failings directly caused the deaths of 96 Liverpool fans, the match commander at the Hillsborough disaster will finish giving evidence today at the new inquests.
David Duckenfield now accepts he should have closed the tunnel leading to the terraces where the fatal crush developed.
I'm writing your news, sport, travel and weather updates for Merseyside today.
Get in touch during the day to let us know what you think of the service and also send us your pictures via email, Facebook and Twitter.
How will the Budget affect you?
The online dating site sued for targeting married people
Northern Lights illuminate UK skies
Why is a UK town following Detroit's example?
