http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/31949673
BBC Sport - Dynamo Kiev v Everton
Former Celtic winger Aiden McGeady joined Everton from Spartak Moscow in January, 2013
18 March 2015 Last updated at 16:34
Coverage: Live text commentary on BBC Sport website
Defender John Stones and winger Aiden McGeady return to Everton's squad for the second leg of their last-16 Europa League tie at Dynamo Kiev.
McGeady is back after missing nine games while Stones has missed two but Kevin Mirallas is out with a knock from the first leg which Everton won 2-1.
Tony Hibbert, Bryan Oviedo and Steven Pienaar are still absent as Everton, the last British survivors, bid to reach the quarter-finals.
The cup-tied Aaron Lennon can't play.
Everton are unbeaten in four games away from home in the Europa League this season and an extension of that record would take them through to a first European quarter-final since they won the European Cup Winners' Cup in 1985.
Roberto Martinez's side travelled to Ukraine on the back of a 3-0 win over Newcastle United at Goodison Park last Sunday, which brought them a second win in 13 Premier League games to lift them six points clear of the relegation places.
Romelu Lukaku's late penalty gave Everton a 2-1 lead against Dynamo Kiev after coming from a goal behind in the first leg of their Europa League tie at Goodison Park
Kiev, who top the Ukrainian Premier League with an unbeaten home record, have won their last four home games in Europe by a margin of two goals or more.
Kiev beat Manchester City at the same stage of the competition in 2011, when Everton midfielder Gareth Barry was part of the City squad.
Barry told Everton TV: "My memories are that the atmosphere there was electric and their players play on that. We need to keep calm, stay focused and play our normal game.
"We have to take the confidence from the first-leg performance. The first 20 minutes were disappointing but we have to take heart from the way we then dominated in the second half.
"If we go out there and do the same, there is no reason why we can't go through. Then you can start getting excited and talking about quarter-finals.
"When you are talking about three or four ties away from a European final, these opportunities don't come around too often in your career.
"It's important the players realise that, so we have to try to take advantage."
(agg 1 - 1)
Besiktas win 5-4 on penalties
(agg 3 - 1)
(agg 4 - 3)
(agg 7 - 2)
More results
View all results
(agg 1 - 2)
(agg 1 - 3)
(agg 1 - 1)
(agg 0 - 1)
(agg 1 - 2)
(agg 1 - 3)
(agg 3 - 1)
(agg 0 - 2)
View all fixtures All times UK
