http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/football/31922160
BBC Sport - Barcelona v Manchester City
Manchester City's Premier League title defence has faltered this season
17 March 2015 Last updated at 23:57
Coverage: Live text commentary on BBC Sport website, commentary on BBC Radio 5 live
Manchester City have Yaya Toure back from suspension for the second leg of their Champions League last-16 tie at Barcelona.
Toure has missed the last three Champions League games after he was sent-off against CSKA Moscow.
City - who trail 2-1 after the first leg and must score twice - are without left-back Gael Clichy after his red card in the first game.
Barcelona midfielder Sergio Busquets is out with an ankle injury.
City manager Manuel Pellegrini claims his job is not under threat as they prepare to face the Spaniards.
An exit from the competition could see his position come under more scrutiny as City struggle to defend their Premier League title.
But the 61-year-old said: "I don't think my seat is in danger. We're second in the table, still strong and are going to fight."
He added that even if his position was under threat, he "wouldn't do anything differently, I would do the same thing and focus on the game".
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Discipline key to victory - Pellegrini
Pellegrini came in for criticism for playing two strikers in the first-leg defeat.
Responding to reports of dressing room unrest at Etihad Stadium, he added: "I want to say there's no such strange atmosphere at Manchester City.
"It is a good opportunity for our team and the only way to prove it is to beat one of the biggest teams in Europe and we have that chance tomorrow."
City's former Barcelona midfielder Toure backed his manager.
Toure said: "I think football is like that. Last year was brilliant, everyone was saying Manchester City are a top team in Europe, but all of a sudden we have some problems and we're the worst team in the world. We can deal with that.
"We all know what we have to do, the owners have spent a lot of money to make this one of the top clubs in Europe. We have had some difficulties but we are working hard."
City were beaten by Barcelona at the same stage last season, losing both legs in a 4-1 aggregate defeat.
The Premier League champions had a player sent off in both those matches, as they did when the sides met last month.
Joe Hart's penalty save at the Etihad Stadium could prove crucial in the second leg
La Liga leaders Barcelona host rivals Real Madrid on Sunday.
But they are fully focused on progressing in Europe, before turning their attention to El Clasico.
The Catalan giants outplayed City three weeks ago and would have won more convincingly had Joe Hart not saved a late Lionel Messi penalty.
Coach Luis Enrique said: "There is only one game for us, which is the one we're playing tomorrow. I don't care about the rest, I'm not interested.
"We know we have to have a very good second leg to be capable of getting the better of Manchester City again.
"I don't think we'll see any surprises from City or Pellegrini. I think they will play with two strikers and we'll see what can hurt them."
Find out the full list of award winners
(agg 1 - 1)
Atlético Madrid win 3-2 on penalties
(agg 3 - 3)
Monaco win the tie
(agg 3 - 3)
Paris Saint Germain win the tie
(agg 5 - 1)
(agg 5 - 4)
View all results
(agg 2 - 1)
(agg 1 - 2)
View Live Scores All times UK
View full table
View full table
View full table
View full table
View full table
View full table
View full table
View full table
