http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/tennis/31890083
Andy Murray beats Vasek Pospisil in Indian Wells second round
Andy Murray reclaimed the world number four spot after Davis Cup victories over Donald Young and John Isner
15 March 2015 Last updated at 10:57
Britain's Andy Murray beat Vasek Pospisil 6-1 6-3 in the second round of the BNP Paribas Open at Indian Wells.
The Scot, 27, broke Canada's Pospisil five times in a dominant display.
Murray dropped his own serve at the start of the second set but immediately levelled on the way to victory. He will face Philipp Kohlschreiber next.
World number one and reigning champion Novak Djokovic won by the same scoreline as he saw off Cypriot Marcos Baghdatis in just under an hour.
Djokovic is aiming for a fourth title at Indian Wells
"It went very well for me, a very solid performance from the beginning," said the Australian Open champion, who will play Albert Ramos-Vinolas of Spain in the third round.
"I served well and from the baseline I didn't give Marcos many chances to come back in the match."
Murray, who beat Pospisil in the ABN Amro World Tennis Tournament in Rotterdam last month, sealed his win in one hour 19 minutes.
The Scot hit 14 winners against the Canadian and is set for a tougher test against German Kohlschreiber on Monday.
The pair last met in the third round of the 2014 French Open, Murray prevailing 12-10 in a five-set thriller that was played over two days.
At Indian Wells, Murray said he found it difficult to adjust to the contrast in atmosphere from Great Britain's Davis Cup tie against the United States in Glasgow last weekend.
"I've struggled a bit in the last few years here so I decided to try and play a very solid match and adjust to the conditions," he said. "It was very hot and that made the ball pretty lively.
"Controlling the ball isn't that easy. I thought I played quite a smart match."
Murray could face a quarter-final meeting with Japan's world number five Kei Nishikori, who recorded a 6-4 6-4 win over American Ryan Harrison. Nishikori will play Spain's Fernando Verdasco next.
Juan Monaco upset number 10 seed and US Open champion Marin Cilic, sealing a 6-4 6-4 win.
Sharapova claimed the Indian Wells title in 2006 and 2013
In the women's draw, second seed Maria Sharapova needed six match points before seeing off Belgium's Yanina Wickmayer 6-1 7-5.
The Russian set up a highly anticipated third-round match against Belarus's Victoria Azarenka, after the former world number one beat Belgian Kirsten Flipkens 6-2 6-4.
"To play against one of the best players, it's perfect," said Azarenka. "I definitely need to play my best tennis because she's been playing great."
How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign
