http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/cricket/31898071
Cricket World Cup: Little pressure on Pakistan - Misbah-ul-Haq
Misbah-ul-Haq made 39 against Ireland before being dismissed hit wicket
15 March 2015 Last updated at 16:18
Captain Misbah-ul-Haq expects there will be less pressure on Pakistan in their World Cup quarter-final against Australia than there was in their must-win group game against Ireland.
Pakistan beat the Irish by seven wickets in Adelaide on Sunday, pipping them to the last quarter-final place.
"This one we had to win, and everyone expected us to win because we were playing a non-Test nation," he said.
"The boot will be on the other foot now. We have nothing to lose."
Pakistan now remain in Adelaide for their last-eight game against the co-hosts on Friday.
South Africa v Sri Lanka, Sydney, 18 March
Bangladesh v India, Melbourne, 19 March
Australia v Pakistan, Adelaide, 20 March
New Zealand v West Indies, Wellington, 21 March
"If Australia know Adelaide Oval well, we also have a good idea of what to expect. They will be the favourites but all the pressure will be on them," said Misbah.
"One good spell or one good innings can change the course of a match. I think any team is beatable, especially in one-day cricket.
"Of course we can win the World Cup. We have the momentum. The bowling is doing really well, the batting is beginning to do its part.
"We need to bat as well as we did today. Australia has a good bowling attack, so we need to put everything into that game."
The Pakistan skipper also praised wicketkeeper-batsman Sarfraz Ahmed, who was recalled for their last two group games and anchored the run chase against Ireland with an unbeaten century at the top of the order.
"In the practice matches, Sarfraz was not up to the mark and he was not getting runs, so we left him out," added Misbah.
"But when the batting did not click, we had no choice but to recall him and it has obviously worked well for us."
Listen to highlights from Test Match Special's and 5 live Sport's 2015 World Cup coverage.

Find out the full list of award winners
Catch up with Ski Sunday on the BBC
How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign
