http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-31924309#sa-ns_mchannel=rss&ns_source=PublicRSS20-sa
Rugby World Cup may expand in 2023, says governing body
World Rugby boss Brett Gosper has said a future World Cup could enlarge the number of teams taking part without losing competitiveness.
Both England 2015 and Japan 2019 will have 20 teams, but 2023 may be larger.
Mr Gosper said allowing fringe nations into the event would allow them "to promote the sport in their countries".
"As the sport grows and we conquer new markets the discussion is about looking towards expanding [of the World Cup], rather than contracting," he added.
A larger World Cup would offer the chance to sell the sport into new markets, as well as increasing the potential revenues from the tournament in terms of TV deals, sponsorship, hospitality and ticket sales.
He said a larger World Cup would not necessarily mean teams playing more games, as tournament groups - which currently have five teams in them - could be juggled in size.
Mr Gosper said rugby union was growing strongly around the globe, but particularly in the markets of the US, China, India and Mexico, with Russia and Germany also growing nations.
"Rugby is the fastest growing team sport in the USA," Mr Gosper told a Sport Industry Group Breakfast Club gathering of sporting executives in London.
He added that although Germany and Russia also offered potentially huge new TV markets for the sport, 2019 was not considered the right time to expand and bring them in.
Meanwhile, tag rugby and Sevens were also bringing new players to the game, including women. "We are in very good shape, in all formats, around the world."
Also looking ahead to the 2023 World Cup, he said that there would be moves to "outlaw" secondary ticketing - that is the resale of tickets for, often huge, profit - at that event.
There is no legislation to stop such reselling at this year's World Cup, but 2015 organisers have said new legislation forcing secondary websites to publish the exact row and seat number would prove a deterrent, as people buying tickets from unofficial sources could be refused entrance.
Mr Gosper also said that World Rugby was still considering whether to ban players at the 2015 event from using mobile phones on match days during the World Cup as a preventative measure against match-fixing, as well as to "provide security and peace of mind".
He said that any strategy involving communications at the event also had to take on board the human factor of allowing players to have contact with their families.
Meanwhile, Mr Gosper said the build-up to RWC 2015 was going smoothly, with no major concerns, but a focus that "everything that needs to be done is done".
"I am not saying things can't go wrong, but they are certainly on track."
He said the reason for rebranding of what had been the IRB - the International Rugby Board - as World Rugby had been to promote "what the brand stood for" and "increase comprehension".
He said many people had not heard of the IRB, while those that had thought it was just a decision-making body, rather than also being the lead body in promoting and nurturing the sport.
The organisation is also working with sports technology firm Hawkeye about how to better enhance the fan experience inside the stadium.
Mr Gosper attracted recent controversy over a tweet saying that he did not want England to fail to get through its 2015 World Cup group stage, much to the annoyance of group rivals Wales.
The Australian, a former professional player, said that he was merely making a point that global sports tournaments have a more intense atmosphere if the host nation makes progress.
"There's no reliance by the tournament on England's success or not," he added, saying the 2015 World Cup would be a financial and sporting success event if England went out at the group stage.
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites
The US Federal Reserve signals a future rise in interest rates, but says it will wait until the US labour market improves, sending US stocks higher.
To get live updates you must enable Javascript.
Tweets: Seems Paxman to quiz Cam + Miliband on C4 next Thurs, 9pm. Will Ed stay on set on off chance of a debate? #Popcorn
In its statement following a two-day meeting, the Fed's policy-setting committee repeated its view that job market conditions had improved and gave its strongest signal to date that it was nearing its first rate hike since 2006. The Fed said a rate increase remained "unlikely" at its April meeting and said its change in rate guidance did not mean the central bank has decided on the timing of a rate hike.
What does it all mean for your finances? Find out with the BBC's Budget Calculator.
The message from the Federal Reserve is that the central bank is ready to increase interest rates - although the pace of the rises may be slower than many analysts thought.
Beryl Smith emails: I still feel Mr Osborne should help pensioners more by raising the personal tax free allowance for those aged 70 and over to £15,000. This would give pensioners a bit more money as it would take a lot of them out of paying tax. After all, most of us have paid tax all our lives and are still paying it.
The US Federal Reserve opens the door further for an interest rate hike as early as June, ending its pledge to be "patient" in normalising monetary policy. But the US central bank signalled a more cautious outlook for economic growth.
Former Labour Chancellor Alistair Darling has warned that a so-called public spending rollercoaster is the "last thing you want", and said the real story of the budget was the severity of future cuts.
He told the BBC: "The biggest thing that he [George Osborne] didn't say was that the OBR - not the Labour Party - said that the cuts in the next two or three years are going to be sharper than they've been in the last five.
"If you look at the politics of that and, if you protect the health service - although I think it's going to be very difficult to do with that sort of squeeze - it means defence, it means policing, it means education - they're all going to face quite draconian reductions in spending."
Steve emails: It would have been nice if he had cut the duty on fuel by at least 10p instead of taking all the money. People are travelling less (to visit family or friends) because of the high cost of fuel.
Labour is claiming that Conservative spending cuts are about shrinking the state rather than the deficit. Shadow chief secretary to the Treasury Chris Leslie told the News Channel: "Look at the precipitousness of what they [the OBR] say is an even sharper squeeze on public spending than we've seen in each of the last five years.
"If you want really extreme, sharp cuts to your police, defence, social care and, heaven knows, even potentially the NHS, too, then the Conservatives are the people to vote for," continuing: "It's going beyond what's necessary to deal with the deficit. This is about ideology."
Treasury minister Priti Patel has rejected the OBR's characterisation of the government's spending plans as a rollercoaster ride.
She told the BBC News Channel: "We've been very clear about that consolidation of £30bn and what that will entail - in terms of efficiencies across government, reductions in welfare as the economy grows and more people are in employment, and also through the measures on tax evasion and tax avoidance."
Market research company TNS says the budget can be a turnoff to some voters.
Michelle Harrison, head of political and social practice at TNS, told the BBC News Channel: "In focus groups we did in Watford on Monday night, we actually had some participants tell us that things like the budget, this Westminster theatre, put them off politics."
She said that although most voters "would not be too aware of what's been happening today", everything counts in a "horse race as close as this" and identified two main aims for George Osborne today. First, to reinforce the idea that he had a strong hand on the economy and, the second, the need to pull back some older, more affluent voters who may have moved away from the Conservatives towards UKIP.
Former Conservative chancellor Ken Clarke says the political agenda "has not changed too much" after George Osborne's budget today, which he's "greatly relieved" by. He said the chancellor was under pressure to hand out giveaways but he is glad that he did not do so. Pressed on the OBR's characterisation of the government's spending plans as a rollercoaster ride, Mr Clarke says it's a rather "attractive" rollercoaster.
Tweets: Royal baby due at height of general election campaign via @spectator
George Osborne's Budget statement may have finished several hours ago, but MPs are busy debating his announcements in the House of Commons - and will do for days to come. The debate is split over four days, and concludes on Monday. Our colleagues at BBC Democracy Live bring you all the latest.
In the last 24 hours over 166,000 people have tweeted using the hashtag #budget2015. It has been the most popular Budget hashtag by far.
James Burns emails: I thought the government should have taxed alcoholic drinks sold in supermarkets and gambling more. Also, I think more investment in mental healthcare and care for the elderly is massively needed in this country. Investment should come in the form of training and education. Also, there should be better facilities and homes. If mental health care and care for the elderly is incorporated into the health service it can be treated as more of a real career pathway. Finally, there should be investment in personal financial help, especially from a young age. It is important that people know how to save their money and what the correct account is for them.
Tweets: Lab insist claim Tories wd take spending back to 30s holds-expect lots of shouting on both sides on this over next 6 wks + not much clarity
Some reaction to the chancellor's budget from Barnado's chief executive, Javed Khan. He said: "We're disappointed that the chancellor has chosen to combat in-work poverty with tax changes that benefit higher earners three times more than the poor. Struggling working families will see precious little from the tax change."
Katrina in North Wales emails: So Britain is 'walking tall'?? Perhaps George Osborne would like to go and spread this message at his nearest food bank! Another budget with little or no meaning for anything other than the upper classes...
Some more from Labour's media briefing, which our political correspondent Robin Brant has been attending. He tells us Mr Balls, the shadow chancellor, has described the budget as "a bit of a flop" and challenged the "hubris" of Mr Osborne's version of the economy which he branded "entirely out of touch".
Mr Balls pointed repeatedly to the OBR's prediction that spending cuts will see a "sharp acceleration", and said Mr Osborne had moved forward the planned cuts and increased them in depth to the first three years of the parliament. He also said the chancellor had so far only set out how he would pay for 25% of projected £12bn welfare cuts.
On Mr Osborne's claim that living standards would be higher this year than they were in 2010, Mr Balls said this would not be the case, adding that the government measure of this is "imperfect".
Tony emails: he Chancellor says: "A new personal savings allowance of £1,000 will be introduced in April next year, removing the first £1,000 of savings income from income tax" Is this in addition to ISA interest, or does ISA interest paid count towards the £1,000 limit?
Labour is not ditching its claim that the Conservatives would take the UK to public spending levels not seen since the 1930s. In an on-the-record briefing, shadow chancellor Ed Balls said the spending forecast by the OBR based on government numbers would be "deep and extreme and back to the 1930s on the basis of the numbers that are here (in the red book)".
Mr Balls insisted the spending plans would see a fall in 2018 "to the lowest level of GDP since 1938". The distinction here is that the chancellor said his plans would see spending in 2019 - the following year - at 36% of GDP, the same level Labour was spending in 2000.
Robert Brooks emails: Once again the government has talked up increasing the inheritance tax threshold above the current £325,000 per person (unchanged for 7 Years) and once again there was a deafening silence. The government is always on about being fair but the savings benefits are mainly for people paying mortgages and borrowing, due to the low interest rates. The government's / Bank of England's policy of quantative easing and cheap money loans to the the banks has resulted in a devastating drop in interest for savers. The inheritance tax income to the Government is less than £3 billion. A trifling amount compared to the overall budget. The rapid increase in house prices has been accelerated by the low mortgage rates and is out of the control of those homeowners affected and affects the majority, who originally bought relatively modest homes. The government promised a £1,000,000 inheritance tax threshold before the last election and once elected promptly reneged on it.
Joshua emails: I'd like to see a fair and even minimum wage for all school leavers who are no longer in education. I'm just about to turn 21 and for my three years of full time work, and now relevant qualification within my industry, I am still paid below the national minimum wage for a 21 year old worker. Why should an employee doing the same job be paid less simply because they are under a certain age? If we really want to get young people into work give them an incentive to do so.
@Outoftweet123 tweets: @BBC_HaveYourSay where in the budget is the £200bn needed for infrastructure projects #hs2 #hs3 #crossrail2?
Craft brewer Steve Pickthall, of the Out There Brewing Company, welcomes the cut in beer duty. But he puts the cut in perspective: "You've still got to buy 300 pints before you get a free one," he tells the BBC.
Tweets: Is it rude to point out that Osborne's new debt plan still way above the Darling plan he once denounced? #Budget2015
James emails: I find it irritating how we get the same "the poorer get poorer" line from the same people after every budget that this government makes. The personal allowance has gone up by £4000 in this parliament. I think some people before spouting about the 'cost of living crisis' should remember that we are still getting over a huge recession, and bear in mind when complaining about price rises that we basic rate taxpayers (I earn 15k in case you were wondering) are allowed to keep around £800 more, which goes some way to offsetting those rises.
‏@carlh281161 tweets: @bbc_haveyoursay a tax free allowance on savings would be useful if people actually were able to earn interest on them! #pointless #rip-off
@TaleahPrince tweets: @BBC_HaveYourSay - positive reaction from the stock exchange on the budget - raised quite sharply when announced oil tax reductions
The chancellor's raised growth forecast for 2015 and confident economic outlook helped push London's benchmark index higher. The FTSE 100 ended the day up 1.57% at 6,945.2 points. Standard Chartered surged 8.08% on broker upgrades.
George Osborne is making the first £1,000 of the interest earned on savings tax-free from April 2016. Higher-rate taxpayers will benefit, but only from the first £500 of their savings. This will help the vast majority of taxpayers, but not by very much - few of us have enough dosh in the bank to earn more than a grand in interest in a year. The Treasury estimates the average benefit will be around £15 per year.
Writing in the Spectator, Isabel Hardman explains what the Budget says about the election campaign. "The NHS was the one line of attack that Osborne didn't shut down, and it will be the main line of attack in an aggressive campaign from Labour. Labour will try to scare voters about the prospect of the Tories being in charge of the NHS as the Tories try to scare voters about the prospect of a Labour Chancellor. The result of the election may end up hinging simply on which is the least scary prospect."
If you work in the North Sea oil and gas sector, today was a good day. If you work in the City, today was not quite as cheery. Read Kamal's budget analysis here.
Personal finance expert Martin Lewis told the BBC News Channel: "[On] a thousand pounds interest, you'd currently pay £200 tax on that, as a basic rate tax payer. It's £200 a year maximum giveaway. But it will be very, very popular for the many, many people in the country who have savings and many pensioners out there."
Mark emails: I'm a public sector worker in the North East. Huge increase in pension contributions year after year and lack of pay rise (zero again this year) mean I'm taking home less pay than in 2010. Economic growth? How is it helping me and thousands of others? I am not better off than four-five years ago. My standard of living has been cut.
The leader of Aberdeen City Council, Jenny Laing, welcomes the new investment incentives and tax breaks given to the North Sea oil and gas industry. It will be great for Aberdeen, she tells the BBC. It will bring more jobs and investment into the city, she says.
Rosie Shaw in Cambridge emails: Properties for sale in Cambridge today online at or under £250,000: 18. Cheapest of those: £120,000 for a half share of a one bed flat. To put it politely, the new ISAs are no use at all in the areas where it's most difficult to buy. The Help to Buy ISAs start this autumn, it will take you four and a half years to save the maximum amount. A five year wait to get an extra £3,000 for your deposit. The the maximum property price outside London is £250,000.
Economist Andrew Sentance tells the BBC that he would have like to have seen changes to national insurance. He accepts it would have been difficult for the chancellor to do something ahead of the general election, but says tax reforms should be high on the agenda for the next government.
So are we better off now than in 2010? On Radio 5 live Gemma Tetlow from the Institute for Fiscal Studies explains that Labour and the Conservatives use different measures. The Tories look at real household disposable income, which has been boosted by the return of people to the labour force and also includes pensions. Labour has been looking at average earnings of employees, which are still lower that in 2010.
DUP leader Peter Robinson has told the BBC that, in terms of public spending, it doesn't make much difference whether Labour or the Conservatives are in power in Westminster.
The first minister of Northern Ireland said: "From a Northern Ireland point of view, there is very little - we're talking about single digit figures - of a difference in our public expenditure that we would receive."
Jennifer Dong emails: I'm frustrated. I am eager to see what will be put in place. I've been looking for a house with my fiance for the last year. We saved our deposit and we are both in full time employment. We've had no help from family. We have a budget of about £250 thousand pounds but we thought the change in stamp duty would help us. But when the stamp duty changed, the prices shot up. We've had to look further out because of the changes in Stamp Duty.
A happy cider maker. In Swindon, wd u believe? 2% duty cut. You get everything in this town #budget2015.
Anthony emails: So the chancellor says the recovery is happening , well the truth is: too many people are an 0 hour contracts most new jobs are self employed , and many people are not earning a real living. If the recovery is happening why is every high street been decimated by bankruptcy and empty shops? Many other new jobs are 'agency' workers, having to re-apply for work every 12 weeks and long periods of 'no assignments' and no hope of Job Seekers allowance for these periods. The minimum wage has fallen in real terms and many workers especially in retail and the public sector having substantially reduced living standards.
Tweets: Which party's voters think their financial situation will improve over next 12 months? Con: 1 in 3, Lab: 1 in 7, LD: 1 in 4, UKIP: 1 in 8.
The CBI, which represents British business interests, has offered a broad welcome to today's Budget measures. "Stability and consistency are what businesses need to grow and prosper," director general John Cridland says. "This Budget sets the tone, providing a clear plan for fiscal health and growth." The corporation tax cut, help for the oil and gas industry and continuation of the annual investment allowance are all greeted with enthusiasm, but Mr Cridland believes there is more to do in response to the improved fiscal situation. He adds: "In the next parliament this fiscal breathing space should be used to achieve intelligent reductions in public spending, together with much-needed infrastructure and innovation."
One or two commentators online have been as riled by the chancellor's sartorial choices as his fiscal ones today: his three-buttoned suit is "against gentlemen's outfitters orthodoxy", the Scotsman's deputy editor Kenny Farquharson tweets.
OBR now projecting faster surge in household debt... Higher than Brown levels (170% GDP) by 2018
Now the Budget is out of the way, investors can get back to fretting about interest rates. There will be a key announcement later when the US Federal Reserve issues a statement at 18:00 GMT and holds a press conference half an hour later. The Fed is expected to provide some indication of when its first interest rate increase in nearly a decade will happen. It's a big deal in the financial markets.
@discodejenerate tweets: @BBC_HaveYourSay I guess you can split how people will vote by whether they think what's in this #Budget2015 is for 'me' or for 'us' #SaveOurNHS
Mikkel Erikson has some positive thoughts: "Definitely a Budget which is looking to provide the foundations for a future generation. It's about time we build the foundations of a stable economy for our children to inherit. People will always complain and suggest cutting something not relevant to them, but this is a fair Budget for the majority."
The SNP's Angus Robertson and Jonathan Edwards of Plaid Cymru offer a nationalist perspective on the Budget. "What we didn't hear are the plans of the current coalition government for £30bn of austerity," Mr Robertson says. "We shouldn't lose sight of the fact that Labour voted for that £30bn austerity programme as well." He says people are prepared to support a "different agenda" - and that the difference between the SNP's approach and that of the mainstream parties adds up to £180bn. Mr Edwards says the SNP and Plaid work for a "common agenda". He calls for Wales to have equality of funding with Scotland and accuses the Westminster parties of having "moved the goalposts" on the issue.
The bank levy increase will be painful for global banks who have their headquarters in the UK. It will be a case of one step forward two steps back for banks who are trying to deliver cost-cutting commitments. It is disappointing given that the tougher rules on banks using tax losses announced in the autumn statement were supposed to be in place of a higher bank levy.
Over on Sky News, Danny Alexander has challenged Ed Balls to a three-way chancellors' debate, but the shadow chancellor laughed him off. Of course, this echoes Mr Balls' own throwing down of the gauntlet to George Osborne on the Andrew Marr programme last weekend.
Never ones to miss an opportunity, UKIP are taking advantage of the enormous media presence in Westminster this afternoon by driving this poster around the streets.
Banks in the UK already pay more than £40bn in taxes each year, helping to fund schools and hospitals across the country. The bank levy imposes a significant cost on banking businesses in the UK, which is making many banks move work and jobs to other parts of the world, and is deterring international banks from investing in the UK. This major increase in the bank levy is likely to accelerate that process and damage the competitiveness of the UK economy. This will also further disadvantage UK headquartered banks by increasing tax on their overseas activities, while their competitors in those markets do not pay this tax at all.
Alan Armstrong emails: "Seems to me too little too late. It's amazing what rabbits are pulled out of the hat when the Tories are desperate for our vote. I certainly don't feel any recovery! Compared to other countries our minimum wage is a joke, it should be more like £8 or £9. I also want to see stamp duty scrapped and fuel duty reduced drastically."
The stock market appears to have given its seal of approval to the Budget - the FTSE 100 is up 1.4%. "This [is] going to be good for resource stocks, investment banks and funds," David Papier, head of sales trading at ETX Capital. But on the currency market, the pound fell against the dollar, hurt by earlier data on wage growth.
Patricia emails: "I'm a 58 years old, made redundant at 55. I have few expectations of finding a job at this age, so now I'm self employed and barely earning anything at all. I'm using my savings to survive, on which I've had almost no return during these three years. To me, all this lowering thresholds to pay income tax doesn't mean a thing. The only thing it will help me in this circumstances is a lower VAT rate. Not impressed."
Andrew Gimson, of Conservative Home, feels the chancellor's desire to attack Labour detracted from his message on the economy. In his Budget sketch, Mr Grimson writes: "Whatever else this Budget is supposed to achieve, it is meant as a demolition job on the Labour Party." He goes on: "But the regrettable thing about all this anger was that it rather detracted from the impressive story which the Chancellor has to tell."
The BBC's Northern Ireland economics and business correspondent, John Campbell, says it's estimated that there will be about 3,000 people who could benefit from the new Help-to-Buy ISA, and that about 100,000 people will be taken out of the tax net.
Today's announcement lays the foundations for the regeneration of the UK North Sea. The industry itself must now build on this by delivering the cost and efficiency improvements required to secure its competitiveness. These measures send exactly the right signal to investors. They properly reflect the needs of this maturing oil and gas province and will allow the UK to compete internationally for investment.
Alex Bailey emailed his views about extra funding for church building repairs: "Surely our hard earned taxes should be going to something other than repairing church roofs?"
Just because George Osborne said "I have no changes to make to the duties on tobacco and gaming already announced" doesn't mean that the price of cigarettes isn't going up. The Treasury has confirmed the price of a packet of 20 cigarettes will go up by 16p from 6pm tonight. It's part of the longstanding formula that the price rises by 2% above retail price index inflation.
Treasury sources reject OBR claim of "roller coaster" cuts - saying OBR figures take no account of welfare cuts #budget2015
tweets: Government has failed on deficit target, Chancellor has pushed all his targets back creating long grass economic plan #Budget2015
Katja Hall, deputy director-general of the CBI employers' group, is not happy the chancellor raising more tax from banks. She tells the BBC: "Banks, like any business, will be concerned about constant changes to the tax system, and that could start to have an impact on investment. This is not an welcome initiative by the chancellor."
Robert Chote, chairman of the Office for Budget Responsibility, is giving his post-Budget press conference. He highlights that the chancellor has pledged a slightly tighter squeeze on spending through to 2018/19 and a slightly looser one in 2019/2020. That means total spending is no longer on course to be the lowest, as a share of GDP, since before the war.
The Local Government Association's response to the Budget paints a bleak picture. "Between the chancellor's first Budget in 2010 and the end of the next financial year, the money government gives to councils to provide local services will have fallen by 40%, chair Cllr David Sparks says. "Local authorities have played a huge role in balancing the country's books, but more of the same cannot be an option in the next five years." He calls on the next government to protect funding for local services and tackle "the adult social care crisis".
The Greens' leader, Natalie Bennett, says her party's answer is more investment, not growth. "It's not like our current growth economy has delivered for people's lives," she says. "What we need to do is invest in a huge range of things." These include the NHS, education and 500,000 new homes for social rent over the term of the next parliament.
UKIP's Patrick O'Flynn links his party's immigration message to the Budget. "Completely untrammelled migration of unskilled and semi-skilled people is compressing wages for working class people, so even these tax breaks will be swallowed up," he says. "We've stopped being an economy where most people can have a pay rise most years."
The hashtag #climate is gaining in momentum with over 300 people using it in the last hour.
Julia McClelland gave her reaction: "All this saying how wonderful this budget is, but yet again the rich get richer and the poorer get poorer! How can he raise the threshold to pay the higher rate tax, when he is cutting services? Who will suffer? The vulnerable people who rely on care. Yes, wonderful this new savings incentive if you have any money to save - lots of people haven't got money to live on!"
Bob Johnson emails: "The Tory budget is Spartan to say the least. It's like saying 'I have debt and so I will buy no food and will not eat until I have cleared my debt and amassed some savings.' Unnecessary damage will be done as a result."
Tweets: Worth remembering after all the frenzy: not one mention of the main inheritance tax rate, even in the speech. That awaits the manifesto
Green Party leader Natalie Bennett wasn't impressed by what she sees as a self-congratulatory note in today's Budget statement. "The triumphalist tone about the state of the economy is going to leave a bad taste in the mouth of so many people in Britain who are struggling to get by," she says. UKIP's Patrick O'Flynn, the MEP standing for election in Cambridge, says this is a "rare moment of UKIP-Green Party consensus" - because he too thinks the chancellor adopted "a very ill-advised triumphalist tone". It won't be reflected "in most people's experience of their living standards", he adds.
Today's announcement will be a blow to the UK banking industry. For a sector already under pressure in terms of profitability as a result of regulatory change and other demands, a further £900m increase in the bank levy will be felt acutely. The short term benefits to the Treasury are perhaps understandable, but this could potentially be at the cost of the longer term growth and competitiveness of the UK as a global financial centre.
Now giving his reaction to the Budget, shadow chancellor Ed Balls tells the BBC that George Osborne is "out of touch with reality". He says that people voting in the forthcoming election need to know that they are voting for huge cuts if they vote Conservative. "Nothing in this Budget changed that picture", he says. The cuts will be deeper in the next three years than in the previous five, and people need to know that, he says. He predicts it will be the police, armed forces and NHS who will bear the brunt.
Fahad Sayood asks: "How can Britain walk tall with a million people relying on foodbanks?"
Do you have a question about the #budget2015? Will the changes affect you?
Economics editor Robert Peston asks Paul Johnson from the IFS how Chancellor Osborne could make the £12bn in cuts to welfare spending in the next parliament to meet his targets. Mr Johnson says that if you were to freeze all benefits including pensions you could get there - but that is unlikely to happen, he says. You could take child benefit from even more people, or do something dramatic to housing benefit. But it is "very hard" to cut welfare spending to that degree, he says.
The independent Office for Budget Responsibility might have just dented the Conservatives' claims that this Budget is going to make a big difference - and you don't have to get very far into its overview to find that judgement. Paragraph two begins: "The coalition government's policy decisions in this Budget are not expected to have a material impact on the economy." This is a "very significant statement," Sam Coates of the Times tweets.
The Institute for Fiscal Studies' Paul Johnson says it's a "bit irritating" that we still don't have details - from either of the main parties - where their huge planned cuts over the next few years will hit. "It's a terrible shame to be going into an election without any detail of how the cuts are going to be achieved," he says.
The headlines of the tax, spending and borrowing announcements in the Budget are explained in this four-minute guide. BBC presenters Huw Edwards and Jo Coburn go through some of the key figures from George Osborne.
Paul Johnson, of the Institute for Fiscal Studies, says there was a noticeable change of tone on austerity. "Not much will change over the next couple of years. But the chancellor has reserved substantially what might happen in the long run. He says that austerity could be stopped in the years 2018/19. It's theoretical, as it four or five years down the line. But it's an indication of the future direction."
‏Tweets: So the government, that claims to take #climatechange seriously, now offers even more generous tax allowances for extracting North Sea oil.
‏@WendyDodsworth tweets: @BBC_HaveYourSay @BBCNews what about the NHS?
The Children's Society has expressed its frustration at a lack of funding in the Budget for a topic that's been in headlines recently: child abuse and child sexual exploitation. "With extra money available to the chancellor, it is hugely disappointing that the government has yet again failed to make extra funding available to protect children from sexual abuse and to create a register of missing children," chief executive Matthew Reed says. "With local government budgets being squeezed central government must provide extra funding to make sure that vulnerable children and young people get the protection they need to keep them safe."
What the #Budget2015 means for your finances, given that some plans dependent on election result
Combating tax avoidance has been a key plank of this government's rhetoric for the last five years, so today's announcement came as no surprise. We are disappointed that the chancellor has chosen not to wait for the OECD's important work with the G20 to be completed before pressing ahead with his plans. Any measures must be backed up with additional resources for HMRC otherwise they will be nothing more than headline-grabbing soundbites.
tweets: No game-changer policies pulled out of the hat that could swing the election. My feeling is Tories saving real rabbits for manifesto #budget
Jordan emails: "As someone who just had to pull out of buying my first home as there simply aren't the mortgages on offer with my level of deposit, I'm really excited by the 'help to buy' ISAs. It's rare that an item in the Budget speaks so loudly to me personally."
Tweets: The most used words in #Budget2015
George Osborne and the Treasury's decision to introduce tax subsidies to the North Sea oil producers will be very welcome by the industry. However, in reality, these concessions will likely only benefit the handful of tax-paying North Sea producers and will not address the much larger, structural issues facing the North Sea oil and gas industry.
Beer and cider both received a duty cut. No such luck if you prefer a pinot grigio or a merlot though. More here.
Matthew Hancock, the Conservative business minister, is looking very positive in Parliament's central lobby. "We have the debt as a proportion of the economy falling, which is what we aimed for at the start of this parliament," he says. "It's very good news for the nation."
George Osborne's shade of grey, bookmaker William Hill says, means that those who bet on the hot favourite of his tie choice - blue at 8/15 - have been disappointed. Instead grey won with odds of 16/1 - but the highest-placed bet it received was just £12.
Olly emails: "I am pleased about several items in today's Budget; fuel duty frozen, raising 40p tax band to £43,3000, £25m support for veterans, new SW Rail franchise and the reduction of toll fares for the Severn Crossing. All of these will make my life considerably easier. And with the 1p drop in Beer Duty... I'll have a drink!"
Tweets: And here's a chart Osborne made specially for Ed Balls, showing tweaked spending now NOT returning to 1930s...
How will the Budget affect you?
The online dating site sued for targeting married people
Northern Lights illuminate UK skies
Why is a UK town following Detroit's example?
