http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/rugby-union/31909394
Six Nations 2015: Wales 'open' to Adam Jones phone call
Adam Jones has not played for Wales since the first Test against South Africa in June 2014
16 March 2015 Last updated at 13:21
Venue: Olympic Stadium, Rome Date: Saturday, 21 March. Kick-off: 12:30 GMT
Coverage: Live on BBC TV, HD, Red Button, BBC Radio Wales, Radio Cymru Radio 5 live, 5 live sports extra, online, mobile, the BBC Sport app and Connected TV.
Wales forwards coach Robin McBryde says they would be "open to a call" from retired tight-head prop Adam Jones after an injury to Samson Lee.
Scarlets' Lee is out of Wales' crucial Six Nations match against Italy in Rome on Saturday after injuring his Achilles tendon in the 23-16 win over Ireland.
"We'd be open to a call. It was his decision in the first place to hang up his international boots," said McBryde.
Exeter's Tomas Francis and Saracens' Rhys Gill are added as prop cover.
Jones, 34, called time on his Test career after he was overlooked for Warren Gatland's initial Wales squad, but he still plays club rugby for Cardiff Blues.
Asked whether he would call Jones, McBryde said: "No. I've still got his number, but there's no need to call him at the moment.
"As far as I'm concerned he's announced his retirement and, until he changes his mind at the moment, we've got enough strength in depth.
"Adam's experience has never been in question. Adam's got that experience behind him and I'm sure he's sharing that at the Blues.
"He's obviously got a wealth of experience that he can impart on others."
Jones made 95 appearances for Wales, winning three Six Nations Grand Slams.
Loose-head Gill returns to the squad amid concerns over prop Gethin Jenkins, who has a hamstring injury.
Aaron Jarvis took over at tight-head from Lee during Wales's 23-16 win over Ireland. Cardiff Blues tight-head Scott Andrews is also in the Wales squad, but is not first choice at his region, where Jones has been their regular starter in the number three jersey this season.
Wales also have a worry over hooker Richard Hibbard, who is undergoing the sport's concussion protocol after coming on as a replacement against Ireland only to suffer a head blow.
Ospreys' Scott Baldwin started the wins against France and Ireland, returning to the field after Hibbard was taken off in Saturday's win.
Jamie Roberts starred for the British and Irish Lions in 2013
Scarlets' Ken Owens was called into the squad before the Ireland game after recovering from a neck problem.
Wales are tied on six points with Ireland and England going into the final round of Six Nations matches, but need a high-scoring win to mount a serious challenge for the title because of their inferior points difference.
Francis, 22, is one of the heaviest forwards in the professional game at 6ft 1in and 21st.
He would cap a remarkable rise from virtual unknown to Test involvement if he comes into the match day squad on Saturday.
Francis was called in to training before the win over Ireland and has now become a full squad member.
McBryde said: "Tom is currently first-choice tight-head for Exeter, who are second in the Premiership, playing week-in, week-out rugby.
"Yes it's a step-up to international rugby - that in itself shows there's calibre there. There's genuine potential there.
"You've got to give people some time. We can't turn down those opportunities and if that's the case [Francis plays against Italy], that's the case."
Centre Jamie Roberts has been cleared to play in Rome after being forced off against Ireland.
Full details of Wales' Test matches
BBC Sport will bring you comprehensive coverage of the Six Nations on TV, radio and online.
Thu 19 March, 20:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Fri 20 March, 17:45 GMT, BBC Red Button
Sat 21 Mar, 08:40 GMT, BBC Two
Sat 21 Mar, 12:10 GMT, BBC One
Sat 21 Mar, 14:25 GMT, BBC One
Sat 21 Mar, 16:30 GMT, BBC One
Sat 21 Mar, 17:00 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live
Sat 21 Mar, 19:00 GMT, BBC Red Button
Find out the full list of award winners
Catch up with Ski Sunday on the BBC
How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign
