http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/rugby-league/31927309
Super League: St Helens v Warrington Wolves (Thu)
James Roby was the top tackler in Super League last season
17 March 2015 Last updated at 15:52
Venue: Langtree Park Date: Thursday, 19 March Kick-off: 20:00 GMT Coverage: Live commentary on BBC Radio 5 live sports extra and BBC Radio Merseyside
St Helens centre Mark Percival will be out for six weeks with his knee injury, while Luke Walsh is still not ready to return from his long-term lay off.
Hooker James Roby returns after his knock and forward Kyle Amor is back from suspension.
Warrington head coach Tony Smith has named the same 19-man squad to select from after beating Leeds last week.
Wolves have lost just once in Super League so far this season, while top-of-the-table Saints are unbeaten.
St Helens head coach Keiron Cunningham told BBC Radio Merseyside:
"I'm proud of what the players have done so far but it's a long, long way.
"Warrington are a great side and coached by two great coaches in Tony Smith and Richard Agar.
"I love how Warrington play, I love watching them play. They're really entertaining and they've got that steel about them now.
"If we're on the money and they're on the money, it's going to be a really entertaining game."
Warrington head coach Tony Smith told BBC Radio Merseyside:
"It's always an epic game between the two of us.
"They had that terrific record on us for many, many years that they kept at their old ground.
"I know they'll turn up with a lot of spirit as they're a very spirited team.
"This club is a really exciting place to be at the moment, there are things happening and there is a good vibe."
St Helens (from): Makinson, Turner, Jones, Swift, Burns, Masoe, Roby, Amor, Vea, Wilkin, McCarthy-Scarsbrook, Walmsley, Hohaia, Thompson, Richards, Wellens, Greenwood, Dawson, Savelio.
Warrington Wolves (from): Asotasi, Atkins, Bridge, Clark, Currie, Evans, Harrison, Higham, Hill, King, Laithwaite, O'Brien, Penny, Philbin, Ratchford, Russell, Sims, Westwood, Wheeler.
Rugby League, Thu 19 Mar, 20:00 GMT, BBC Radio Merseyside
Super League, Fri 20 Mar, 19:30 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live sports extra
Catch up with Ski Sunday on the BBC
How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign
