http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/rugby-league/31817617
Super League: Hull Kingston Rovers 50-20 Catalans Dragons
Ken Sio is now Super League's joint top try scorer with six this season, along with Castleford's Justin Carney
15 March 2015 Last updated at 17:02
Hull KR (10) 50
Tries: Sio 3, Cockayne 2, Lunt 2, Kelly, Salter Goals: Mantellato 7
Catalans (20) 20
Tries: Tonga, Oldfield, Casty, Pelissier Goals: Dureau 2
Hull KR climbed off the bottom of Super League as they came from behind to stun Catalans with a stunning nine-try win.
After stand-off Ken Sio had equalised Willie Tonga's early try, Rovers got hit by a blitz of three first-half tries while temporarily down to 12 men.
They trailed 20-4 until a minute before the break when Ben Cockayne crossed.
But Sio crossed twice more to record a hat-trick, Cockayne added a second and on-loan debutant Shaun Lunt also got two as Rovers ran in seven more tries.
The Robins' seven second-half tries came in the space of just 24 minutes as scrum-half Albert Kelly, centre Liam Salter and midweek Huddersfield loan signing Lunt, on as a replacement, all joined in the fun.
6 - Justin Carney (Castleford), Ken Sio (Hull KR)
5 - Danny McGuire (Leeds), Jordan Turner (St Helens)
4 - Tom Briscoe (Leeds), Albert Kelly (Hull KR), Jacob Miller (Wakefield), Chris Riley (Wakefield), Joel Tomkins (Wigan), Lloyd White (Widnes)
Their runaway victory leaves city neighbours Hull FC now propping up the rest, Rovers having climbed to eighth with their second win of the season.
Catalans, who shipped seven tries in a remarkable 40-40 draw against Salford last week, have now conceded 90 points in their last two matches.
They are now scheduled play Hull FC on Friday night and will stay on in England for the week to prepare for that game at the KC Stadium.
Prevented from scoring in the second half, Catalans' other tries in their hot spell before the break, following home prop Mitch Allgood's yellow card, came from winger Michael Oldfield and replacements Remi Casty and Eloi Pelissier.
Scott Dureau landed two goals for the French side, without playmaker Todd Carney who broke ribs in last weekend's draw with Salford.
Rovers winger Josh Mantellato kicked seven of his nine conversion attempts for a 14-point individual haul.
Hull KR coach Chris Chester told BBC Radio Humberside:
Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
Chester on Hull KR v Catalans
"I'm very pleased. Ben Cockayne's try just before half-time really gave us a boost going into the break.
"We then spoke about a few things at half time that we needed to fix up and I'm really delighted with the second half performance.
"To keep a team like Catalans to no points in that second half was a fantastic achievement. But I didn't see that scoreline coming.
"Hopefully now the guys have the belief because I said to them after the game 'we are a good rugby team and we need to start believing ourselves a bit more."
Catalans coach Laurent Frayssinous:
"We need to defend like a Super League side, not a French Championship side. But I did not see us conceding 50 points.
"With the new format, we cannot afford to defend like we did. We have to sort that out very quickly.
"Our possession in the first half was good and we applied some pressure on the Hull KR line.
"But we need to give credit to Rovers because they put us under a lot of pressure in the second half. They have some great players and they punished us."
Hull KR: Cockayne; Mantellato, Welham, Salter, Sio; Campese, Kelly; Walker, Boudebza, Allgood, Blair, McCarthy, Burke.
Replacements: Lunt, Horne, Green, Larroyer.
Catalans: Escare; Oldfield, Pomeroy, Tonga, Duport; Bosc, Dureau; Elima, Henderson, Lima, Taia, Whitehead, Mounis.
Replacements: Casty, Anderson, Pelissier, Bousquet.
Sin Bin: Allgood (23).
Attendance: 6,723.
Referee: Richard Silverwood

Rugby League, Thu 19 Mar, 20:00 GMT, BBC Radio Merseyside
Super League, Fri 20 Mar, 19:30 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live sports extra
Catch up with Ski Sunday on the BBC
How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign
