http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/0/rugby-league/31816937
Super League: Huddersfield Giants 22-0 Castleford Tigers
Huddersfield followed last week's victory over Widnes with another home success against Castleford
12 March 2015 Last updated at 22:14
Huddersfield Giants (6) 22
Tries: Ellis, Ta'ai, Murphy, McGillvary Goals: Brough 3
Castleford Tigers (0) 0
Huddersfield Giants recorded their second consecutive Super League win as they comfortably saw off Castleford Tigers at the John Smith's Stadium.
After a scoreless first 37 minutes, the hosts broke the deadlock with a Jamie Ellis try to lead 6-0 at the break.
Ukuma Ta'ai surged through the Castleford defence to cross early in the second half, before Aaron Murphy added a third score for the Giants.
Jermaine McGillvary crossed late on while the Tigers rarely threatened.
After losing their first three matches, including a 19-0 defeat by Hull FC in the opening round, Huddersfield Giants - tipped to challenge in pre season - have now won two in a row.
Giants thought they had taken the lead through Joe Wardle on 23 minutes before the video referee spotted a knock on.
Ellis' pace saw him score under the posts shortly before half-time to give Huddersfield a deserved six-point lead, with Danny Brough converting.
After the break, Ta'ai collected a short pass from Brough and effortlessly shrugged off two challenges to cross for Giants' second try, with the Scotland World Cup half-back converting.
Tigers struggled to impose themselves on the game after that and Murphy ran over in the left corner to further extend the hosts' lead.
Brough missed his conversion but added two points from a penalty soon afterwards, before McGillvary added an unconverted try in the closing stages.
Castleford looked like an entirely different side to that which beat Wigan Warriors 42-14 on Friday.
The result sees Huddersfield climb to fifth in the Super League table.
Huddersfield Giants coach Paul Anderson told BBC Radio 5 live sports extra:
"Zero is always pleasing, regardless of who it is against. We are just starting to find our groove.
"Just imagine what we are capable of if we actually play well, with the ball.
"You can see they are working hard for each other, which is pleasing. If we can move a little quicker in the middle, we will be there or thereabouts."
Castleford Tigers coach Daryl Powell told BBC Radio 5 live sports extra:
"It was completely unrecognisable from the team that I have been working with for the last 18 months.
"There are times when I am struggling to fathom what we are trying to achieve in games. I thought we defended really poorly.
"I nearly fell asleep in the first half. It was a terrible game of rugby league. It is hugely disappointing. I asked for a reaction at half-time and did not get one.
"We just could not find our game at all. Clearly that type of effort is not going to get us very much at all."
Huddersfield: Grix; McGillvary, Cudjoe, Wardle, Murphy; Brough, Ellis; Huby, Robinson, Kopczak, Ferres, Hughes, Lawrence.
Replacements: Crabtree, Wood, Ta'ai, Johnson.
Castleford: Dorn; Clare, Channing, Webster, Carney; Finn, Gale; Lynch, Moore, Millington, Holmes, Moors, Massey.
Replacements: Roberts, Cook, Wheeldon, Crossley.
Referee: James Child
Attendance: 5,257
Rugby League, Thu 19 Mar, 20:00 GMT, BBC Radio Merseyside
Super League, Fri 20 Mar, 19:30 GMT, BBC Radio 5 live sports extra
Catch up with Ski Sunday on the BBC
How to get into sports and activities near you, plus more about our campaign
