http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/10/02/potato-skins-recipe-photos_n_4025504.html
Ready For A Next-Level Potato Skins Recipe? (PHOTOS)
Potato skins, like deviled eggs, accomplish a feat nearly no other food can: they are edible bowls. Sure there are bread-bowls. Taco salad monstrosities. But the potato skin is an edible bowl uniquely suited to whatever you fill it with. The reason for that is simple: potatoes are so good that they make other foods better.
As you start to think about gameday food, you could go with a classic potato skin. The crowd will undoubtedly be pleased. Or, you could drop some next-level potato skin knowledge on the room and change things forever. We have a few suggestions for both scenarios. How about pizza potato skins? Blue cheeseburger potato skins? Or, flip the script completely and serve them potato skins mac and cheese. That's right. We said...
Potato Skins Mac and Cheese Get the Potato Skins Mac and Cheese recipe from A Spicy Perspective
Take a few seconds to recover from that topographical miracle above, and then dive face first into the rest of our favorite potato skins recipes.
Want to read more from HuffPost Taste? Follow us on , , and .
Get the Classic Potato Skins recipe from Brown Eyed Baker
Get the Baked Potato Skins “Pepperoni Pizza” recipe from Seasaltwithfood
Get the Bacon Potato Skins recipe from Macheesmo Um. You baste them with bacon drippings. YOU BASTE THEM WITH BACON DRIPPINGS.
Get the Bacon Blue Cheeseburger Potato Skins recipe from How Sweet It Is
Get the Chorizo And Cheddar Potato Skins recipe from Just A Taste
Get the BBQ Chicken Stuffed Sweet Potato Skins recipe from How Sweet It Is
Get the Savory Sweet Potato Skins recipe from How Sweet It Is
Get the Baked Spicy Potato Skins with Yogurt-Curry Sauce recipe from Cookin' Canuck
Get the Potato Skins Mac and Cheese recipe from A Spicy Perspective Yes. This is really mac and cheese with a layer of potato skins on top. It is what we refer to as "next level shit."
Get the Skinny Buffalo Chicken Potato Skins recipe from Skinny Taste
Get the Twice Baked Potatoes recipe from This Gal Cooks This is kind of cheating, but just think of it as a potato skin with extra potato.
Get the South-of-the-Border Loaded Potato Skins recipe
Get the Goat Cheese, Spinach and Tomato Potato Skins recipe
