http://sports.yahoo.com/news/juventus-beats-genoa-1-0-17-points-clear-174035592--sow.html
Juventus beats Genoa 1-0 to go 17 points clear in Serie A
MILAN (AP) -- Carlos Tevez scored again to help Juventus beat Genoa 1-0 in Serie A Sunday and maintain its 14-point advantage over Roma, which got back to winning ways with a 1-0 victory at Cesena.
Tevez, who also had a penalty saved at Juventus Stadium, scored the only goal of the game with a magnificent finish to increase his tally to a league-leading 16 on the season.
It was also the Argentina forward's 24th goal in all competitions, following a double in Wednesday's 3-0 win at Dortmund, which sent Juventus through to the Champions League quarterfinals.
''The coach always gives me compliments for what I do on the pitch for the team,'' Tevez said. ''Everyone knows I am happy here, I don't want to talk about my future at the moment. I have to enjoy this unique moment that I am experiencing.
''We have to seal the championship as soon as possible so we can focus on the Italian Cup semifinal and the Champions League quarterfinals. We can't let our guard down.''
The match at Juventus Stadium was the only one of the weekend with the traditional kickoff of 3 p.m. local time.
In the evening, Daniele De Rossi fired Roma to its first league victory in six matches as it remained a point ahead of city rival Lazio, which beat Hellas Verona 2-0.
Sampdoria leapfrogged Napoli into fourth with a 1-0 win over Inter Milan. Napoli drew 1-1 at home to 10-man Atalanta, while Fiorentina also dropped points in the race for a Champions League spot, drawing 2-2 at Udinese after two goals in as many minutes from Mario Gomez.
Crisis-hit Parma lost 2-0 to Torino while Empoli beat Sassuolo 3-1 in the lunchtime kickoff for a club record eighth match unbeaten.
Genoa was the only side to have beaten Juventus in Serie A this season, having snatched a 1-0 win at the end of October.
Tevez broke the deadlock with a moment of magic in the 25th minute, beating two defenders as he surged into the area before firing an unstoppable effort in off the underside of the crossbar.
Genoa goalkeeper Mattia Perin was forced off early in the second half with a shoulder injury and was replaced by Eugenio Lamanna, who saved a penalty 10 minutes later, diving smartly to his right to keep out Tevez's spot kick.
It was the second penalty Lamanna has saved in his three appearances this season, after also denying Roma's Adem Ljajic.
Facundo Roncaglia had given away the penalty by bringing down Roberto Pereyra.
Roma was under pressure after crashing out of the Europa League at home to Fiorentina.
De Rossi set his side on the way to a valuable win shortly before halftime. Salih Ucan failed to control a Jose Holebas cross from the left, but De Rossi ran up from behind him to drive home.
Lazio got off to the perfect start when Felipe Anderson headed home Dusan Basta's cross in the fourth minute. It was the Brazilian's ninth league goal and his third in two matches.
Both sides hit the woodwork before Antonio Candreva doubled Lazio's lead on the stroke of halftime with a powerful free kick.
Felipe Anderson also hit the crossbar in the second half after sprinting forward from his own half.
Samp is four points behind Lazio but up to third after Eder celebrated his debut Italy call-up with a fantastic free kick in the 65th minute.
Former Samp striker Mauro Icardi had hit the crossbar earlier in Inter's fourth Serie A match without a win.
Napoli was also on a miserable run in the league but its hopes of getting a result were boosted when Papu Gomez was sent off following a second booking just 10 minutes into the second half.
However, Atalanta took the lead when substitute Mauricio Pinilla - who had only been on the field two minutes - stole the ball off Paulo Henrique and rounded the goalkeeper before slotting into an empty net.
It was another substitute who snatched the equalizer a minute from time when Duvan Zapata headed in a David Lopez cross from close range.
The tension got to coach Rafa Benitez and he was sent off for dissent in stoppage time.
Atalanta moved five points off the drop zone.
