http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/08/08/us-basketball-vs-australi_n_1756454.html
U.S. Basketball vs. Australia LIVE UPDATES: Olympic Men's Basketball Quarterfinals
Now, it's time to win or go home (or, more likely, wait around until the closing ceremonies).
After mostly cruising (for exception, see: Lithuania) through group play going undefeated with five wins, the U.S. men's basketball team's quest for the gold continues in the quarterfinals against Australia.
Out of five games in the group stage, four of the U.S. wins were blowouts. They had a record-breaking performance against Nigeria, scoring the most points in a single game in Olympic history with 156. The U.S. shooters went cold in their next game, however, barely avoiding an upset against Lithuania and then dominated Argentina in the final game 126-97.
Australia didn't look like it would even make it to the quarterfinals after dropping the first two games of group play to Brazil and Spain. Led by guard Patrick Mills, the Aussies reeled off three straight wins to advance to the next stage.
But now Mills, who was second overall in scoring in group play, will have to go against Chris Paul and Russell Westbrook.
Will the U.S. win another game with ease? Or will Australia pull off one of the biggest upsets of the Olympics?
Stay tuned for live updates throughout the game and we'll be sure to keep you up to speed on all the other Olympics action:
Hours after the closing ceremony actually ended in London, NBC played back some recordings of athlete interviews done on the floor of the Olympic Stadium in the immediate aftermath of the performance by The Who.
Up first, 17-year-old swim star Missy Franklin summed up the feelings of everyone who has been contributing to this live blog for the past 17 days.
"I can't believe it's over," Franklin told Michelle Tafoya of NBC.
Thanks for enjoying (and/or not enjoying) everything that has happened during the London Olympics with us.
CLICK HERE to check out all of our coverage and to re-live (think of it as a form of tape delay) your favorite moments.
NBC has returned from your local news and its new sitcom with.. The Who. It's midnight on the East Coast and well past the bedtime of all the band members in the UK.








With everyone knowing that The WHO already played in London hours ago but still waiting to see them during the Closing Ceremony broadcast, NBC decides to debut a new sitcom. So, you have to wait for this to see "Baba O'Riley" and "See Me, Feel Me" and "My Generation."
With Take That performing, the fireworks began.


The many petalled Olympic cauldron begins to come apart and after a puff of smoke, a red, lit Phoenix hovered above the flames.

Our opening ceremony proclaimed that these would be a Games for everyone. We can say that these were a Games by everyone
The spirit of these Games will inspire a generation. When our time came, Britain, we did it right
Lord Coe, the athlete turned politician delivers his second speech of, saying it was "A wonderful games in a wonderful city. We lit the flame and we lit up the world."





The Brazilian performance begins with a tap dancer dressed a street sweeper begin scolded by security type. But soon CARNIVAL has them both.

The stadium was lit up green and yellow as the Brazilian anthem plays. The hosts of the 2016 Olympics then had the chance to give the world of glimpse of what they'll have on offer in four years. Expect Samba.


NBC cameras show athletes talking amongst themselves as Olympic flag is lowered, folded and prepped for transfer to Brazil.
The national anthem of Greece is played to honor the birthplace of the Olympics as the Greek flag is raise, to flutter in the wind near (but not too near) the Olympic cauldron.

Jessie J struts out to meet May in the middle of the stadium, where she begins singing "We Will Rock You." The crowd ate it up.

