http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/612402/s/4444e14f/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Cboxing0Cmayweather0Evs0Epacquiao0C11463810A0CFloyd0EMayweather0Ev0EManny0EPacquiao0ELA0Epress0Econference0ELive0Bhtml/story01.htm
Floyd Mayweather v Manny Pacquiao, LA press conference: as it happened
By Gareth A Davies, Boxing Correspondent
9:43PM GMT 11 Mar 2015
Comments
•Mayweather v Pacquiao - How richest-ever fight was made •Pacquiao records entrance song for Mayweather clash •Mayweather and Pacquiao to face-off on March 11 •Video - Mayweather vs Pacquiao by numbers

Mayweather v Pacquiao, LA press conference: Live (8.30pm GMT start)
Goodbye Roll on May 2. Can't wait. Thanks for joining tonight.
Great stuff from Floyd, maybe even getting into Pacquiao's head. Both were even a little nervous today. Perhaps the size of the event is really dawning on them. Mayweather is a master of psychology. The last time he lost, by the way, was 19 years ago at the Atlanta Olympics.
Mayweather has also made clear that he has wanted the fight for a long time. Also says the fight is happening because of him, because he wanted the fight. The truth is that it is down to Mayweather wanting the fight. But as he is just saying, he is the face of boxing. Pacquiao, conversely, the STORY of boxing.
'Expect us to have a great game plan,' adds Mayweather, deeply confident.
'It's been a long road. But we are here now,' said Mayweather.
Thanking his entire team, and even appearing as little emotional. Mayweather added: "May 2, the fight of the century, the best against the best. And Pacquiao is one of the best of this era. Our plan is to be smart and take every fight as they come like all 47 fights. I'm i the gym pushing myself to the limit, because I want to win this more than any other fight. But I know one thing about sport, and if you lose, it's in your mind. I have always been a winner." Great psychology from the unbeaten champion.
Floyd up next.
Pacquiao on the dais now, thanking God, of course, for charting his life, but promises a great fight on May 2, and says the fans have been waiting for this for 5 years.
'God can make you from nothing to something. That's me,' says Pacquiao.
Roach 'We are in the toughest fight of our lives. But we are going to kick Floyd's ass. Sorry Floyd.' Short and sweet.
Arum now talking of the two legendary trainers Freddie Roach and also mentions Floyd Mayweather Snr.
Arum is back up up on stage. 'You missed me, Floyd ?' he says.
Espinoza explains he was involved when the 'infamous drug-testing' clause scuppered the fight talks 5 years ago.
Ken Hershman, of HBO, gives his thanks to all. 'HBO very proud to be involved.'
Ditto Stephen Espinoza of SHOWTIME/CBS.
Espinoza explains how Mayweather told them he wanted the biggest fights possible when he joined them 2 years ago. Six fight deal = $240 million US dollars.
Arum is thanking a ton of people now.
Arum: 'With the help of of everyone the entire world will be watching on May 2 this great event. We are all part of the boxing family.'
Now Bob Arum to the mic. Six decades in the sport. Legend. He shakes hands with Floyd. Used to promote him. Historically, they really do not get on. Like hatred in the past.
Mayweather's 11th consecutive fight at the MGM Grand, and 14th time he has fought in the Garden Areina there n his career.
Lenoard Ellerbe, Mayweather's adviser, speaks first. Thanking Floyd, and many others behind the scenes for making the fight happen, promoters, and execs from the tv companies, who are normally rivals.
The face off... two feet away. Both very calm, serious. No smile from Pacquiao until they are facing out into the crowd.
Floyd Mayweather now, out of the darkness, announced by Jimmy Lennon Junior, pale blue/grey suit, striped shirt, buttoned to the neck, no tie. Boy, these boys can afford the best tailors in the world, Mayweather in to Queen's 'We Will Rock You'.
Manny Pacquiao arrives in blue suit, shirt and tie, looking pretty serious.
So...let's rumble on stage...
Pacquiao says he wants the fight to please the fans. He wants 'satisfaction for the fans.' Says he was more worried about the contests with Antonio Margarito, Oscar De La Hoya, and Miguel Cotto. That is unquestionably the most destructive period of his career. We are seeing footage of MP destroying De La Hoya in 2008, in spite of fears that he was far too small to face Oscar.
Millions are watching from around the world. One man is prepared to give up his house if Pacquiao loses.

@TelegraphSport @GarethADaviesDT I'm putting my house on a Pacquiao win!
Bob Arum reckons it's 'probably the biggest night in the history of the city (of Las Vegas).' Promoter speak for THIS IS BIG.
Here's who we will have on the dias today.
FLOYD MAYWEATHER, 11-Time, Five-Division World Champion
MANNY PACQUIAO, Eight-Division World Champion
FREDDIE ROACH, Pacquiao’s Trainer
LEONARD ELLERBE, CEO of Mayweather Promotions
BOB ARUM, Founder and CEO of Top Rank
STEPHEN ESPINOZA, Executive Vice President & General Manager SHOWTIME Sports
KEN HERSHMAN, President HBO Sports
RICHARD STURM, President, MGM Resorts International
So here we go, on time... ! They are calling it the Super Bowl of boxing. Another fight being called 'The Fight of The Century'
The fighters are in the vecinity, and these press conferences are notoriously late. Who knows, this could be different. Expect a ton of people to speak, and I'm expecting the two fighters to sound more like politicians than fighters today, Wouldn't be a bit surprised, nonetheless, if Roger/Floyd Mayweather Snr razz Freddie Roach up and get some barbs from him. They are bitter rivals. We might even get a poem from Mayweather Snr. You never know...
The betting odds: Mayweather started out as the favourite. But that is changing. Rapper 50 Cent is betting $1.6 Million on Floyd Mayweather Jr. to win, but Pacquiao is rising in the odds in Las Vegas. According to odds released this Monday by Station Casinos, Floyd Mayweather Jr. is a -200 favorite to defeat Manny Pacquiao, meaning that a bettor must put $200 down to win $100. In other words, if 50 Cent wins his $1.6 million bet, he would walk away with a profit of $800,000. Bonkers.
Between them, the two men will earn reportedly – Mayweather $120 million US. Pacquiao $80 million US. Incredible – some might even say obscene – amounts of money. Where I’d disagree with some saying it is too late, is that 3, 4 or even 5 years ago, it might have been a fight in their athletic prime. But arguably it would not have been as big a fight as it is now… in terms of money, and global reach.
So, here we go... the start of the Big One. The richest fight in history. Floyd Money Mayweather and Manny PacMan Pacquiao. Two remarkable many... for many different reasons.
The two fighters and their teams will be on stage in LA in a few minutes... so I'll furnish you with a few thoughts and some of the thoughts of others. You can also tweet me @GarethADaviesDT ...
Manny Pacquiao believes he has God on his side. He reckons 'its God's will that I fight'. He's hard at work, too... but says this.

The Lord my God that I am serving will deliver him into my hands. #MayweatherPacquiao
No shortage of observers and pundits have weighed in on the action. But here are the views of two heavyweight world champions, whose second fight generated $200 million US dollars, what seems like a very long time ago now...
Former world heavyweight champion Evander Holyfield plans to be at the world welterweight unification bout between our two eponymous heroes of the 'Pacquiao vs Mayweather' event at the MGM Grand Garden Arena.
"I don't know who's going to win, that's the reason I'm going to see it," says the four-time heavyweight champion."If I had to pay, I would pay to see that fight, because that's how great that fight will be."
Who wins in his view ? "Pacquiao, the only way he can win is if he corners him off. Can he corner him off? If he corners him off, I think he will win ... I don't think he can. But that's what makes the fight so interesting."
Manny Pacquiao arrives with promoter Bob Arum and coach Freddie Roach (AFP)
His great rival, Tyson (and let's hope there's no ear chewing in May-Pac) ? “Floyd doesn’t throw nowhere near 100 punches a round,” he says. “He’s more, you know, scientific about it. He really plots a lot. And he sits around and he poses. And this guy [Pacquiao] is all over — fading, moving. That’s just my opinion. I just don’t think [Mayweather] is going to be able to play that plotting, skill … Floyd gotta fight the first couple of rounds."
In the view of most analysts, Mayweather may be too skilled defensively over the course of the fight for Pacquiao to smother with his attacks. In general, I tend to agree with that, but over the next eight weeks, I'll be propounding theories like all the other mini boxing Einsteins out there pedalling theories on this fight.
Who knows ? Jeremy Clarkson might have a theory. Looks like he might be in training for a boxing match...
Here's what the two fighters are tweeting (latest)

Week 2 of training camp starts today http://t.co/10hmysOZRS https://t.co/vqtLT9W5WM
Preview: The world will be watching and craning its neck to see whether one side walks away today with an early advantage.
The making of "Money" versus Manny Pacquiao dates back to 2009, when talks first began, but arguments over drug-testing and the details scuppered talks twice.
But the egos have been soothed, rival promoters have come together - Floyd Mayweather and his old impresario Bob Arum - and respective rival broadcasters HBO and Showtime have put down their swords for the betterment of the sport, and, of course, an obscene amount of money which is going to be generated.

Tonight will be the only time they come face to face until fight week, both sides having decided to forego the media tour of several cities which is normally a part of these pay-per-view Box Office fight events.
Perhaps they are right. This fight is so big, has been talked about so much already, there was barely the need to publicise it over a number of days when they could be in camp.
Join Gareth A Davies from 8pm GMT for all the latest news, views and reaction
