http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/612402/s/43e7046c/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Cboxing0C114427360CCarl0EFrampton0Eretains0EIBF0Etitle0Ewith0Ebrutal0Evictory0Eover0EChris0EAvalos0Bhtml/story01.htm
Carl Frampton retains IBF title with brutal victory over Chris Avalos
By Gareth A Davies
12:30AM GMT 01 Mar 2015
Comments
Carl Frampton retained his International Boxing Federation super bantamweight title with a brutal fifth round stoppage of mandatory challenger Chris Avalos in Belfast on Saturday night.
It was a war, a shoot-out, from the opening bell. Another vicious, physical encounter for the all-action 122lb champion from Northern Ireland known as ‘The Jackal’, played out at a blistering pace.
Belfast already loved him, but British viewers on ITV would have been thrilled by the main event, Frampton displaying the speed, power and athleticism which led his mentor and promoter, the former world champion Barry McGuigan, to claim that his charge is “the best in the world at 122lbs, bar none”.
McGuigan believes Frampton is ready to face any of the world champions at super bantamweight, including Guillermo Rigondeaux, Leo Santa Cruz, and Lancastrian Scott Quigg, who joined the victorious fighter and promoter in the ring post-fight.
Both prize-fighters agreed that a contest pairing them together this year would be a British blockbuster, which they would hold in a stadium. It would be a thriller, and needs to be signed.
Fury and Eubank Jnr record impressive wins
ITV come fighting on return to ring
Pacquiao records entrance song for Mayweather clash
Frampton calls out Quigg
Once again, unbeaten Frampton showed why he is a special fighter. His speed and timing allowed him to overcome the five-inch reach advantage enjoyed by his American foe as he got his jab away, as well as landing the left hook to the body.
Frampton took the first two rounds, but Avalos landed his own dangerous arcing left hook in the third, though Frampton replied with his own beautifully-timed counter left hook.
But once Avalos was in trouble in the fifth, Frampton measured his rival with both hands and hit the man who had tried to goad him in the build-up with a vicious left-right and then another huge right hand.
Referee Howard Foster stepped in to stop the contest with Avalos out on his feet.
On the prospect of a fight against Quigg, Frampton said: "I would love it. I think Scott wants it, it's a summer showdown between the both of us. It's a massive fight but Scott needs to remember who's the real world champion."
The 28-year-old added he would be happy to fight outside of Belfast in order to guarantee an encounter with fellow unbeaten fighter Quigg.
"I would leave Belfast if I had to. Maybe somewhere neutral, it doesn't matter to me," he said.
"I think Scott would agree with me. It's the biggest fight in the UK [other than] Amir Khan-Kell Brook possibly, but I think this one's been brewing a lot longer. It's a huge domestic showdown."
Quigg - who holds a secondary version of the WBA title, with Cuban Guillermo Rigondeaux the body's Super champion - is just as keen to arrange a bout.
"This fight is big, not because of him not just because of me, it's the full package. The British public want the fight," he said.
"He draws the crowd in Ireland, we draw the crowd in Britain, wherever. It doesn't matter where the fight is, wherever it holds most - get the fight on."
