http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604246/s/42d3d99d/sc/1/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Colympics0Cbadminton0C113768260CEmily0EWestwood0Eunfazed0Eby0Eplaying0Ebadminton0Ewith0Eone0Ekidney0Eahead0Eof0Enational0Etilt0Ein0ECrawley0Bhtml/story01.htm
Emily Westwood unfazed by playing badminton with one kidney ahead of national tilt in Crawley
By Rod Gilmour
12:33PM GMT 29 Jan 2015
Comments
Anything other than a second mixed doubles’ English National Championship title for Chris and Gabby Adcock will be seen as a major shock at the K2 in Crawley this weekend.
The world No 6 pair will be overwhelming favourites in Sussex, given that they are 84 ranking places ahead of their nearest British rivals, second-seeded Harley Towler and Emily Westwood.
However, stranger things have happened and Westwood, who joined the senior ranks two years’ ago, says that on their day “we can be very good” as the 21-year-old prepares to make her nationals’ debut alongside Towler, another promising doubles’ specialist.
“Being No 2 seeds is a big deal for us and Harley is also seeded in the men’s as well so we’re looking for a good tournament,” she said.
Westwood and Towler came together as a partnership in September after changes enforced by the Great Britain performance programme. In the last month they have reached the quarter-finals and semi-finals of the Swedish Masters and Irish Open respectively and currently sit at world No 90.
Adcocks aim for Dubai glory
Love, honour and badminton gold
Golden couple see off Scots
Adcocks win 'battle of ex-partners' to reach final
As a pair, Towler stands nine inches taller – roughly the same height difference as Gail Emms and Nathan Robertson during their playing days – though Westwood’s height, 5ft 1in, is down to her being born four weeks premature.
She was also born with one kidney, though it hardly bothers her in a non-contact sport such as badminton. “I still don’t know which side it is, my parents can’t remember either,” admits Westwood.
A US survey in 2012 revealed that one in 750 people are born without one of their kidneys, while Westwood says most people “wouldn’t know they had just one unless they had it checked out.”
She added: “I haven’t had any issues playing with only one. I’ve never researched it, what you can and can’t do, while my parents have never been worried about it – my mum is a nurse, so she could look after me anyway.”
Focus is now firmly on her mixed doubles’ career and a future Olympic berth, be it Rio 2016, or, more likely, at Tokyo 2020. She will experience playing in Sussex for the first time this weekend too, though she admits that playing in the Far East on a regular basis is her dream after first experiencing the atmosphere at the world juniors in Taiwan.
“I learnt a lot from the two weeks out there,” she said. “It’s crazy how good the young Asian players are. Some of them, aged 17, are beating our top players but Europeans peak a bit later, so not all hope is lost.”
Meanwhile, Emms will mark the 10th anniversary of topping the world rankings with an appearance in the mixed doubles.
Emms, 37, last won the mixed doubles national title nine years ago, when she paired with Nathan Robertson in Manchester, but will play with Cheshire’s rising star Matthew Nottingham, the 2011 European junior champion, in Crawley.
