http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/640204/s/44ac9915/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cfootball0Elive0Eblogs0C114885650CBarcelona0Evs0EReal0EMadrid0EEl0EClasico0Elive0Bhtml/story01.htm
Barcelona vs Real Madrid, El Clasico: as it happened
By Adam Hurrey
10:17PM GMT 22 Mar 2015
• A chastening night for Gareth Bale and four other talking points from El Clasico
• Barcelona 2-1 Real Madrid: match report from the Nou Camp

Result: BARCELONA 2-1 REAL MADRID
22.17 A nice image to leave you with tonight, unless you're of the Ronaldo/Real persuasion:

I'm off to dream about being booked for a cynical trip in El Clasico. Buenas noches, and gracias for reading.
22.10 The stats-counters at Squawka rub salt in the Ronaldo wounds. 2015 hasn't been a stellar year for him:

22.07 The chances of Barcelona letting it slip now are...thus:
<noframe>Twitter: Tom Adams - Barcelona four points clear with 10 games to play. Have dropped three points in their previous 10.</noframe>
Full time! Barcelona 2-1 Real Madrid With ten fixtures remaining, Barca take a significant (if not commanding) lead over Real at the top of La Liga.
It's always a unhelpfully reductive (if fun, sometimes) to make this all about Messi v Ronaldo. And this match was decided by whichever attacking triumvirate worked better together. Despite Benzema's huffing, puffing and backheeling, Ronaldo and Bale simply didn't offer enough to trouble Barcelona. Meanwhile, the hosts' trio of Messi, Neymar and Suarez all offered various glimpses of individual magic - plus intermittent moments of collaborative genius - to keep Madrid's backline occupied.

What this means for Carlo Ancelotti, Gareth Bale and Real Madrid remains up in the air, but Barcelona are smoothly developing from a perceived one-man team to a certifiable three-man band.
90 min There will be three added minutes of shameless trips, Suarez hand-gestures and sufficiently stout Barcelona defending before we all start contemplating work tomorrow morning.
87 min CLOSE AGAIN! Messi is denied by Casillas down at his right-hand post. Wasn't quite enough on that sidefooted finish to carry it in, but Casillas nevertheless got down well. Lucas Silva is on for Modric.
86 min CLOSE! Jordi Alba's lungs are close to bursting as he latches onto a Messi through-ball, but Casillas gets enough on his poked finish to divert it wide. Barcelona, obviously, waste the corner.
84 min Suarez turns Carvajal inside and, indeed, out before firing a shot across the face of the goal from the left. Neymar's evening is over - Rafinha is on in his place.
82 min Barcelona aren't exactly seeing this out comfortably, but Madrid are yet to gather a head of steam for a grandstand finish. In truth, the referee has rather taken the sting out of this match.
79 min It's skipper Iniesta who makes way for Xavi, who assumes the red-and-yellow-striped armband.
78 min Xavi is about to enter the fray, to bring some serenity to proceedings, in what may very well be his final Clasico. But first, Bravo is forced into a full-stretch save when a Benzema shot deflects twice off Barcelona limbs and heads towards the bottom corner.
77 min Unless they're paid by the card...
<noframe>Twitter: Jonathan Liew - Refereeing El Clasico has to be one of the worst jobs in sport, no question.</noframe>
74 min Messi, and then Neymar, go close to sealing three points for Barca. First, Messi curls a left-footer agonisingly wide of Casillas' left-hand post, before Neymar races through but blazes wide while off balance. Spaces opening up for the Barcelona front three now, though. Sergio Busquets - essentially a human final whistle - comes on to replace the slick operator Ivan Rakitic.
73 min The star of the show right now:

71 min Dani Alves is...well, take a guess from the following options:
1) Booked
2) Abducted by aliens
3) Booked
69 min Free-kick for Real, 35+ yards from goal, dead centre. The UN recognises this as Ronaldo Territory, but he hands over sovereignty to a cross into the box instead, and Barcelona clear.
67 min Nobody likes change.
<noframe>Twitter: James Tyler - Oh, it's almost like this Clasico is going the way of every single Clasico</noframe>
65 min A big welcome to the Yellow Card Club for Andres Iniesta, who's booked for a late challenge on Sergio Ramos.
63 min Suarez is writhing around again after a Pepe challenge. The referee is spared a big decision (Pepe's been booked already, naturally) by the linesman's offside flag.
61 min More work for the referee's pencil, as it spells out the name of Javier Mascherano.
60 min Suarez looking delighted with his first Clasico goal:

GOAL! Barcelona 2-1 Real Madrid (Suarez 56 min) Simplicity in motion. Dani Alves lofts a ball over the Madrid defence, who haven't detected the run of Luis Suarez quickly enough, and he slides a right-foot finish past Casillas and into the far corner. Not much power required, just enough control to keep it away from the keeper. Barcelona lead and, as it stands, take a four-point lead at the top of La Liga.
54 min Rakitic swings in an abomination of a corner, which fails to beat the first man and irritates me far more than any diving, referee-surrounding or fluorescent boots.
52 min Luka Modric happily accepts a yellow card for felling Lionel Messi in full flow. That's *counts on fingers and guesses* seven bookings so far.
50 min In the blink of an eye, a floundering Madrid move is turned into a Barcelona counter-attack, which almost sets Neymar and Messi up against a solitary Pepe. His legs are just about quick enough to scamper over and clear the danger, though.
49 min CHANCE! Great work from Benzema who does all the work, bar a flick from Ronaldo, to carve himself out a chance. His snapshot is parried by Bravo and Barcelona clear.
48 min A misplaced Iniesta pass elicits groans from the Nou Camp, before Neymar entices Carvajal into a foul on the edge of the area. He's booked.
46 min No changes for either side at half-time. The crowd haven't woken up from their nap, either. Benzema, who has been the best of real's front three tonight, slides Bale through but Bravo is out to gather.
20.59 A delicious slice of first-half Clasico beef:

20.55 Sartorial observations of the Sky Sports panel from football writer, fashion guru and nice bloke Nick Miller:
<noframe>Twitter: Nick Miller - Alex Song has just got in from some sort of jazz funeral.</noframe>
Half time! The Nou Camp/Camp Nou explodes with indifference at the half-time whistle, bringing to a close an increasingly eventful 45 minutes. After a brief period of feeling each other out, as they say, Barcelona took the lead via a source improbable. 12 minutes after Jeremy Mathieu's headed opener, though, real were level thanks to Cristiano Ronaldo, who has the right heel of Karim Benzema to thank for creating a chance out of a mere opening. Throw in a few yellow cards and that was a creditably entertaining Clasico first half. More of all of those things, please.
44 min CHANCE! Bale, after a short penalty area scramble, is presented with a golden chance to put Real ahead, but he screws it wide from 7 yards out. Meanwhile, tick the Sergio Ramos box of your El Clasico Disciplinary Bingo Card - he's in the book.
43 min Here's that offside which, as you can see, wasn't anything of the sort:

41 min Pique's attempting bicycle kicks from 16 yards. It's all kicking off in Catalonia.
40 min DISALLOWED GOAL FOR REAL! Bale slides into put Real ahe....nope, his celebration's cut short by the whistle. Reason? Unclear, but Bale was very much onside. Drama.
39 min Pique's leg dangles again, but this time with much more effect to deny a rampaging Bale in the area. That had to be inch-perfect, or this referee's popularity was about to plunge.
37 min Ronaldo booked for diving! He drives into the area, Pique dangles a leg before retracting it, and over he goes. It looked like a dive, and the referee seemed 100% sure. Jordi Alba was also booked, presumably for that righteous standing-over-the-diver act that we know and love.
35 min Pepe is a marked man once more - this time it's Rakitic who brings him to earth but, somehow, escapes a booking.
33 min A word on that Neymar chance. Suarez fired a cross-shot into the six yard box, and it ran all the way through to a waiting Neymar, who fluffed his shot straight into the hands of an otherwise helpless Casillas. Coulda, woulda, shoulda - it's 1-1 now.
GOAL! Barcelona 1-1 Real Madrid (Ronaldo 31 min) Seconds after Neymar misses a glorious chance to double Barcelona's lead, Real sweep the other end and - from a superb Benzema backheel - Ronaldo toe-pokes his side level. That was (see 19.30) Romario-esque.
30 min A football purist writes:
<noframe>Twitter: Robbie Fowler - El Classico.... ? To many diving, feigning, fouls for me</noframe>
28 min Luis Suarez is the next name into the referee's book, for a crude assault on the calf of Pepe. Our first tasty little sub-plot, this one...
26 min Mathieu is the standout performer so far. Marcelo's rifled shot is met by the Frenchman's thigh, before he nods a header over his own bar, flirting with the possibility of scoring at both ends. While Ronaldo remains on the periphery, Mathieu is where the fun is at.
25 min All hail Mister Chip and his convoluted football landmarks:
<noframe>Twitter: MisterChip (English) - FCB 1-0 RMA (Mathieu 19') - Barca hasn't scored a header in a Clasico at Camp Nou in 12 years (Kluivert, 06.12.03)</noframe>
23 min Messi tees up Jordi Alba but his 30-yarder is high and wide, even in Nou Camp terms.
21 min In less surprising news, Pepe goes into the book for a foul from behind on Luis Suarez. Madrid semi-rattled by goal machine Mathieu's opener. Neymar or Messi to take the free-kick...it's Messi - and it's now a corner.
GOAL! Barcelona 1-0 Real Madrid (Mathieu 19 min) A Barcelona free-kick from the left, taken after a whispered conference between its taker Messi and Neymar, is met with a glancing header from WHO ELSE BUT JEREMY MATHIEU. The delivery was absolutely perfect, and Mathieu's job was rather simple, if expertly carried out. Barcelona lead!
18 min Not a huge surprise that Messi has seen a great deal more of the ball than his long-term nemesis, but it's Ronaldo who's come closest to breaking the deadlock.
15 min Benzema and Ronaldo are both playing right up top for Madrid, which might unlock the midfield labyrinth for Barcelona. The tempo's not gathered enough steam to test this sensational theory, however.
12 min CROSSBAR! Benzema chips a cross to the back post, where Ronaldo is lurking. His sidefoot volley, from about 4 yards, smacks against the bar! Isco then fires a shot, that's deflected wide. First period of sustained Real pressure, which ends with a Ronaldo header way over the bar.
10 min A few stern words from the referee to Gareth Bale for some mild off-the-ball roughhousing.
8 min First glimpse of Gareth Bale as he runs at the Barcelona defence, before slipping Benzema in down the right channel. His first-time shot is weak, however, and drifts wide of Bravo's goal.
7 min Iniesta is back with us, and his ankle appears to be structurally sound, on the evidence of another surge into Real territory. Carvajal quells the danger this time.
6 min Whistles all round as Real try to get their passing going in the Barcelona half. Ronaldo is strolling around up front, waiting for something to latch onto.
5 min Nutmeg #1 for Lionel Messi.
3 min Iniesta and Suarez share a swift one-two in the area, but Madrid clear for a corner. Iniesta, though, is lying in a crumpled heap behind the goal. He's in a huge amount of pain, but he's giving it a go...
2 min Iker Casillas - the saddest footballer in the known universe - hoofs a clearance into the home fans, which will help his mood.
1 min Rob Palmer and Gerry Armstrong pretending to be in the Nou Camp commentary gantry tonight for Sky. An underrated pair, if you ask me. Dabi Alves and Ivan Rakitic double-team Ronaldo, who shows zero interest in chasing after them to get the ball back.
20.00 Here we go!
19.59 There's the obligatory small pocket of hardy travelling souls, with ample disposable income, sat in Row ZZZZ:
<noframe>Twitter: Dermot Corrigan - 500 Madrid fans up in top corner of Camp Nou, away fans tickets were &#8364;111 each.</noframe>
19.56 The teams are in the tunnel, there are inter-club handshakes, arms on shoulders and pats on backs of heads. Not for long though, eh?!
19.44 It seems that Senthamarai Subramanian is no fan of Cristiano Ronaldo:
1 LIONEL MESSI, 2 KARIM BENZEMA, 3 NEYMAR
19.40 Meanwhile, Sky Sports' Scott Minto is joined by Alex Song, Gael Clichy and Guillem Balague in the now familiar surroundings of what looks like a Spanish attempt at a Harvester:

19.33 A message of festive joy from Lauren Gallagher:
Liverpool vs Manchester United & Real Madrid vs Barcelona on the same day? This day should be named the Christmas of club football
Almost, Lauren. That's transfer deadline day. Days like today are more like Easter: overindulgent, often sugar-coated and no-one's quite sure what the ultimate point is.
19.30 I enjoy watching Messi and Ronaldo - I really do - but I'd welcome this man back with open digital arms:

Pure goalscoring, with precisely none of the trimmings.
19.21 Assuming this dedicated chap in the middle even has a match ticket, he's never getting in carrying that lot.

19.13 Here's the alternative Christmas message:
<noframe>Twitter: Unfitforpurpose - Your annual reminder that the classico is nothing but a way to celebrate two superclubs hoarding all the talent they possibly can.</noframe>
19.10 The teamsheets are in!
Barcelona: Bravo; Alves, Pique, Mathieu, Alba; Rakitic, Mascherano, Iniesta; Messi, Suarez, Neymar
Subs: Ter Stegen, Montoya, Bartra, Adriano, Busquets, Xavi, Rafinha, Roberto, Pedro
Real Madrid: Casillas; Carvajal, Pepe, Sergio Ramos, Marcelo; Modric, Kroos, Isco; Bale, Benzema, Ronaldo
Subs: Navas, Varane, Hernandez, Lucas Silva, Arbeloa, Jese, Illarramendi
18.59 Evening.
There's a creeping, global dilemma facing the world's anglophone football writers. Research has found that the earth's supply of superlatives for its two greatest footballers is running perilously low, forcing some to resort to whimsical, knowing understatement instead. Luckily for you, I'm so far unaffected by the superlative drought. So, tonight, a certain little Argentine by the name of Lionel Messi goes head-to-head with a former Sporting Lisbon wonderkid Cristiano Ronaldo (whatever happened to him?!) in the small matter of™ El Clasico. Not bad, eh?
Football's cruise/crisis dichotomy dictates that Barcelona's stock is back on the rise, while Real - with a scowling Ronaldo, a boo-plagued Gareth Bale and an under-pressure Carlo Ancelotti - are feeling the strain.
Back to the main protragonists: Jason Burt suggests that Messi's recent performances - Ballon d'Or or no Ballon d'Or - give him the edge over Ronaldo, who is cutting a frustrated figure:
Heading into Sunday's El Clasico, there were two images from the build-up that appeared to sum up the contrasting fortunes of the two highest-profile clubs in the world and the two best players.
The first came last Sunday when Real Madrid beat Levante 2-0 - and the petulant reaction of Cristiano Ronaldo as his bicycle kick resulted not in a goal for him, but for Gareth Bale. Ronaldo angrily waving his arm was about himself, not about the team.
The second image was the joy in Lionel Messi's face as he congratulated Ivan Rakitic after the Croatian had smartly collected Messi's wonderful chipped cross-ball to score the goal that beat Manchester City at the Nou Camp.
It appears, also, that such is their force of personality that it almost seems impossible for Messi and Ronaldo to thrive at the same time. So, going into El Clasico at the Nou Camp, it is Ronaldo's physical and mental state that is dominating the agenda.

There has been inevitable mischief with Hristo Stoichkov stirring the pot by claiming in the Spanish sports daily AS that Real Madrid president Florentino Perez could be considering selling Ronaldo this summer.
"Messi at the moment is much better," he said. "Maybe the obsession with Messi affects [Ronaldo]."
Despite his obvious bias, it is an intriguing point that adds yet another dimension to this remarkable clash.
17.00 Good afternoon. It is the most expensive match in the world. El Clasico almost never disappoints and this one should be no different.
Twenty-seven games into the season just one point separates Spain's two premier clubs. Lionel Messi's Barcelona sit top of La Liga on 65 points with Cristiano Ronaldo and chums on 64.
It's a bit early to say this match will decide La Liga's champions but... this match will (possibly) decide La Liga's champions.
Adam Hurrey is the man in the hotseat and will be here from around 7pm GMT with all the pre-match build-up, team news and action. Do join him.
