http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/640204/s/43c43054/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cmanchester0Ecity0C11433760A0CMan0ECity0Evs0EBarcelona0ELuis0ESuarezs0Edisplay0Eshut0Emany0Emouths0EManuel0EPellegrinis0Eumpteenth0Edisappointment0Bhtml/story01.htm
Man City vs Barcelona: Luis Suarez's display 'shut many mouths'; Manuel Pellegrini's 'umpteenth' disappointment
By Telegraph Sport
9:43AM GMT 25 Feb 2015
Comments
Manuel Pellegrini was quick to point the finger at his Manchester City players for defeat to Barcelona last night but one Spanish publication knew who at fault and haven't pulled any punches in their assessment.
Barcelona-based paper 20minutos are somewhat scathing of Pellegrini accusing him of "not measuring up" to his former great days.
Raul Rioja writes: "Yes he played a huge role during his time with Villarreal and Málaga and won the Premier League last season. But City were ridiculed in the first half against Barca and that falls squarely with Pellegrini who has failed to measure up to the great days.
Rioja, in the article headlined 'The umpteenth disappointment for Pellegrini' goes on to say that "when one thinks Pellegrini can not disappoint again, the Chilean always exceeds".
"The first half against Barcelona showed a Manchester City team without hunger or desire to play football."
City fan: Neymar 'unprofessional' to react to me
Mundo Deportivo reflect on the disappointing way Barca and Lionel Messi finished a decent night's work at the Etihad when the Argentine saw his last-gasp penalty kick saved and then missed an open goal from the follow-up.
Lionel Messi missed an open goal after Joe Hart saved his penalty Pic: AP
Leo Messi was aching inside, furiously angry with himself after giving 90 minutes of outstanding football, craft and talent.
The reason for this paradox, his failure to convert a penalty in stoppage time. Leo went for the right corner, Hart guessed correctly but his clearance fell back to Messi but he inexclicably directed his header wide.
His desperation, will obviously cause a disgust that will last several days. His colleagues were plunged into silence, no one dared to comfort him. Messi is not one to digest such an incident well."
With Messi failing to get on the scoresheet, Luis Suárez finally rose to the occasion and enjoyed his moment on English soil again.

Luis Suarez's performance "shut many mouths", according to Sport journalist Lluís Mascaró.
He stopped the mouths of all those who criticised his move for over 80 million euros. He stopped the mouths of all those who thought he was not a player for Barca . He stopped the mouths of all those who were beginning to doubt his scoring ability . And he did it in the best way possible : a double in the Champions League against Manchester City.
Meanwhile, French sports page L'Equipe claimed Messi was "close to perfection" in the first half last night but gave the man-of-the-match honour to Suarez. City defender Pablo Zabaleta was given a paultry 3/10.
