http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/640204/s/43bd1bec/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cfootball0Elive0Eblogs0C114320A930CManchester0ECity0Evs0EBarcelona0EChampions0ELeague0Elive0Bhtml/story01.htm
Manchester City vs Barcelona, Champions League: as it happened
By Alan Tyers
10:42PM GMT 24 Feb 2015
- Five things we learned from Man City v Barca - Paul Hayward's match report is here - 10 reasons why Lionel Messi is on the decline - City should consider selling Aguero if they could buy Suarez - Barcelona's evolution from Ronaldinho to Neymar - Messi hits casino 48 hours before City clash - A video with all the match stats (and funky electro number)
MANCHESTER CITY 1 BARCELONA 2 Hart's kept City just about in it with a penalty save at the death. Having been roasted in the first half, City rallied really well in the third quarter of the match and pulled it back to 1-2. Once Clichy walked, they were back in the soup, and a third would probably have been about right. But Hart saved the shot, if not the day, and City go to Barcelona in a fortnight with a puncher's chance. This Barca defence can be got at. Whether City can keep a clean sheet in Catalonia is another matter altogether
Joe Hart: I hope our second half efforts are worth something. We'll go there with a great set of fans and give it a right good go. We pressed well until the first goal and then we panicked a bit. It wasn't that the occasion got to us, the game just didn't go our way.
Paul Scholes: When Barca go one-nil up it is very hard to get the ball off them.
Both Scholes and Martinez think that Alves made the best of the foul.
Neymar in touchline row with Man City fan
Pellegrini: Blame the players, not my tactics
City must improve in Europe to satisfy owner, says Clichy
Bad Kompany - Man City captain is in decline
<noframe>Twitter: Stuart Brennan - Neymar was involved in an unsavoury confrontation with a City fan at the end of the game. Stewards intervened.</noframe>
That Mark Ogden is a studious type. Here are five things he learned from Man City v Barca. It's tough reading for City fans - here is a taster...
Manuel Pellegrini has spent enough time in Spain managing against Barcelona with Villarreal, Real Madrid and Málaga to know that playing 4-4-2 is a high-risk strategy against the Catalans.
The fact that he chose that formation was surprising enough, but selecting Fernando and James Milner in central midfield was naïve to the point of reckless.
Fernando has shown himself to be mediocre at best since arriving from Porto last summer, while Milner, industrious as he is, is not a natural holding midfielder and certainly not one capable of disrupting Barcelona’s rhythm.
Manchester City just invited Barcelona to dominate possession, which they did with glee, and the introduction of Fernandinho on the hour mark was akin to calling the fire service after your house has burned down.

Paul Hayward's match report is here. Go check it out. Here's a taster.
However fancy the Manchester City set-up, however grand their aims, the stomach is bound to churn at the sight of a £450million attacking prong in shirts as luminous as their talents. All teams enter the Casino de Barcelona when Lionel Messi and company come to town.
Luis Suárez is the third biggest name in the Barcelona forward trio but was the first on to the scoresheet here with an obligatory goal against Joe Hart. Where have we seen that before? In Sao Paulo, where he returned from a month out with a knee injury to expel England from the Brazil World Cup. To extend that symmetry, Suarez put a second one beyond the England goalkeeper on 29 minutes after Messi had flashed across the Manchester City penalty area and guided the ball to Jordi Alba to cross.
City 0 Suarez 2, with less than half an hour gone. And this after three successive errors from the Premier League’s best player in 2013-14 had raised doubts about his touch and form. Even Suarez looked exasperated. But help was at hand, from Vincent Kompany, who made a mess of a Messi chip into the box, which then fell to Suarez to slam past Hart.
With Sergio Aguero fit in City colours, and David Silva present, this was surely the most star-studded game to be played on this turf. But there was no mistaking the imbalance in Barcelona’s favour. Their front line is almost gaudy – or Gaudi – and would have no place for Edin Dzeko, who started alongside Aguero in a high-risk City formation.
The key to the game, every pundit said, was whether City deploying two strikers would concede midfield superiority to Luis Enrique’s team. With Messi dropping deep to shape the attacks, we soon had our answer, as Fernando and James Milner laboured to stop Barcelona’s greased moves through the middle. On City’s right, Alba was a constant menace. You could see the Premier League team’s bafflement at having to deal with so many surges that flashed into being without warning.
Well, they still in it. Just. Night.
90+ mins: Messi steps up.... hits it very hard... Hart saves it! He's parried it straight back at Messi, who has a chance to head it home and atone from the rebound, but he's headed wide! That's the last action of the game. Messi cannot believe it!

90+ mins: A dangerous attack, City tiring, Barcelona pressing. It's Messi, barrelling down the left. He's too tricky for Zabaleta... It's a foul, it's a penalty, it's Messi.... a few seconds on the clock...
90 mins: Messi denied a delightful goal by a (correct) offside flag. Finishes with a beautiful chip. But he was off. Three minutes added time.
88 mins: Suarez breaks, is fouled by Fernando, who is booked.
87 mins: City give away a cheap corner but clear it well, and Aguero's break is ended by a shoulder charge from Adriano, who goes in the book.
86 mins: Game effort from city between minutes 46 and 70-whenever-the-sending-off-was, but this game has gone flat.
82 mins: City's recovery has, obviously, been stymied by the sending off. The attacking currently coming from the men in yellow. Adriano with an effort. Suarez putting himself about. He really is the most 24-carat weapon, but my goodness the chap can play footbal.
80 mins: Alves, who was subbed off, had a bit of a tantrum. Kicked a water bottle. Clive Tyldesley reports that Alves's agent, who is trying to get him a new contract, is his EX-WIFE. Lee Dixon expresses surprise. Clive: "Well, she might have a stake in his financial future." Heh. Neymar off Pedro on.

76 mins: City playing a high line, Alba has sprung their offside trap again, and he crosses for Messi, whose delicate effort is just tipped over by JH. Silva off, Sagna on.
75 mins: Jordi Alba has slivced City open with a superb run into the box... and it takes an even better tackle from Zabaleta to stop him. Brilliant defending. Barcelona, wrongly, think they should have a penalty.
73 mins: Oh, that's a blow. Clichy has been given a second yellow for a high-ish tackle on Dani Alves. Possibly a bit of a harsh yellow, but a rash move for a player already on a yellow. Alves comes ofd. Adriano on.
72 mins: Jeremy Mathieu on for Ivan Rakitic
71 mins: Fernandinho and Bony fashion a decent chance and then get in one another's way, fouling up the shooting chance.
70 mins: Suarez though, a constant irritant, like a wasp, or a Suarez, and he's very nearly nipped in for a third... offside flag saves the day.
GOAL! City have got one back! And it is no more than they deserve. Nice ball down the centre, a clever flick from Silva, Pique and various other Barca players throw themselves desperately at it. Aguero! Takes one touch away from his man, the second he hits it firm and true, keeper no chance and Manchester City are back in this. MANCHESTER CITY 1 BARCELONA 2 (Aguero 69)
68 mins: Dzeko off, Bony on
64 mins: Oooh. That touch from Messi. That was all the sex. Ball long and loopy, he killed it in the air and flicked a shot at goal. But City survive and get up the other end of the field, it's a fine bit of defending from Pique after a decent effort from the boy Aguero.
62 mins: City have another corner. They've made a good fist of things this half. Fernandinho replaces Samir Nasri. Clichy was booked just now for a foul on Rakitic. Kyle Leonard says:
NINE YEARS? That’s a lot of injury time
60 mins: The situation is not lost for City. Azi Alhussaini has delved deep into the history books to say:
How long did it take Chelsea to win the Champions League after Avramovich took over? I believe 9 years and they barely won it. it takes time but surely we will win it one day.
58 mins: Rakkers has won a freekick for Barca down the right. Everyone's missed it. Marc Melander writes:
The force is not strong with City. The City manager, harshly of course, is compared unfavourably with Chewbacca of Star Wars fame. If the contest were forwarded 50 years and played on Tatooine then City would still resemble a wheezing steam alembic gamely fronting up against the glittering death beams and chrome swiftness of the Catalan Raiders.
57 mins: Good freekick into the box from City, some head-tennis, and it's the Much Maligned Martin Demichelis who heads... a bit weakly at the keeper.
55 mins: Dzeko, good play. Lays it off, gets to the byline, gets it back and gamely wins a corner.
54 mins: Aguero! Silva wins the ball, plays it to Sergio. He runs from deep, and bends a shot with his right foot... just a foot wide of the far post, with old Ter Sturgeon beaten for all money. David Prentice:
And watch it if they pull one back. Otherwise, SWEAR 'em, the overpaid, self-entitled SWEARS.
52 mins: An exciting start to the second half, but as nothing compared to this absolutely sensational email from Shane O'Leary:
For what it's worth... Manchester City will never, ever crack the European 'big time'. There being a whale of difference between cash-bloat and class. You could argue otherwise, but you'd end up writing for The Daily Telegraph instead of chucking peanut shells into a real log fire while dribbling cheap cider into an expensive laptop and listening to Faerground Accidents.
Never mind all that, here's top of the Kops....
1: Hungry Like The Wolf - Suarez Louis
2: Mean Mr Mustard - Louis Condiment
3: I Like Chinese - Monty Suarez
4: I Like Chinese Again - Suarez 15 Minutes Later
5: I Eat Cannibals - Louis Unchained
6: Grills On Film - Suarez Le Bon Bon
7: Digsy's Dinner - Belongs To Louis
8: Eat The Rich - Louis At Home
9: Green Green Grass Of Home - Suarez 2015 (V)
10: One Piece At A Time - Suarez Smorgasbord
50 mins: City's best chance yey. A corner, big Vinny Kompany comes near post, gets a top quality flick on... Dzeko unmarked! He's got a free header from eight yards... and he's put it right down the keeper's throat. The Barca glovesman did not have to move. Such a waste.
49 mins: Silva again, from open play now... low cross... Nasri cracks it! Well blocked Mascherano.
48 mins: City making a good fist of this - here's another corner, Silva from the left this time. Dzeko! Heads it wide.
46 mins: Well then. Here come City, and they have won a corner down the right almost straight from the re-start. The ball comes through a melee and it drops for Fernando! He cannot get his body, or his feet, or any of him really, in the right position and a decent chance goes a'beggin'.
HALF TIME: MANCHESTER CITY 0 BARCELONA 2 Well, they said that Suarez was overshadowed by Messi. Two goals from him. Ah. City all at sea. Barcelona's defence not exactly assured, either, but City not really been able to get at them enough. Manuel P has an unpleasant choice to make. Attack further in a bid to get back into it? Or take the 0-2 and keep the tie at least partially alive?
<noframe>Twitter: Joe Dabernig - <a href="http://www.twitter.com/TeleFootball" target="_blank">@TeleFootball</a> <a href="http://www.twitter.com/Telegraph" target="_blank">@Telegraph</a> <a href="http://www.twitter.com/alantyers" target="_blank">@alantyers</a> Can you get a refund on 5 billion. Champions of the best league in the world being humiliated.</noframe>
Bit troll-y but I will allow it. It really has been a tough game for City.
45 mins: But City finishing strongly! Nasri with an effort, half-stopped by Ter Stengen, who should have caught it. Lucky for him, he's palmed it a foot or two away from the lurking Aguero, who is closed down before he can take advantage of a sloppy bit of goalkeeping. City have a corner, which is cleared, and that is the half.
43 mins: Alves has been booked.
42 mins: Dani Alves bombs down the right and has chipped Hart from just inside the box! What a lovely piece of invention. It bounces on the top of the crossbar, England's number one was dead and buried.
41 mins: Rakkers Rakitic has been booked.
39 mins: City have a shout for a penalty for... handball? Dzeko slams it at Pique, right on the edge of the box. Hit him on the arm, probably moved the arm a bit in fact. Yeah, foul. Debate as to whether it was in the box or not.. Anyhow, not given.
38 mins: Hart's gonna be City's Man of the Match in an 0-5 whackerwilly here. Dzeko with a chance to gallop, well stopped by a firm Pique tackle.
35 mins: This is turning into a savage, savage beasting. Messi, Iniesta and Rakkers Rakitic link up at blurring speed, slip it out to Neymar who plays a quite exquisite through ball for old Leo Messi, who ghosts into the area and is only denied by (yet another) fine stop from Hart.
<noframe>Twitter: Paul Hayward - Suarez is now back in Sao Paulo, putting two past Joe Hart.</noframe>
32 mins: I miss Andy Townsend. Wonder what he's doing? Lee Dixon is in his chair.
31 mins: Tell you what Clive, that was bloody nearly the third. Barcelona have opened City up easy as you like, Neymar's through and he's dinked the ball past Hart... it doesn't have the pace to get over the line and Kompany can hack here.
GOAL! Ooh I say, that was a bit good. Messi down the inside left now, skips past two, three, four and slides it out to the left wing where the Alba cross comes in low and hard, Suarez applies a delicate finish into the far corner and that, my friends, is that. MANCHESTER CITY 0 BARCELONA 2 (Suarez 30)
26 mins: Another excellent bit of pacy play from Aguero, wins a corner. Cleared.
25 mins: City's fans remember that you are allowed to sing if you like, and cheer on their team. Best MCFC moment of the match as Aguero and Dzeko very nearly pass their way through.
24 mins: Suarez is clear! Ooh this is a fine bit of work from Hart to smother. A second goal really would be curtains.
21 mins: Given the names and money on show... are these teams actually any good? Barcelona again nearly undone by a regualtion cross. Clichy just overhits it.
20 mins: Messi again dropping wide and deep, ball to Alves, deep to Suarez. Volley deflected through to Hart.
19 mins: Ooh but here's a decent ball into the Barcelona area, their centre halves don't look like they are enjoying playing Dzeko. He rises above the defence and heads it not far wide.
18 mins: No immediate signs of a City comeback.
17 mins: Barcelona are down to ten men because Neymar needs to change his boots. Here is Mark Ogden. The hilarious and strange case of English mud!
GOAL! Well, that'll settle Suarez! A touch of fortune. The ball comes in from the right, Kompany looks to have it covered, but Suarez goes for a flick and gets a big slice of luck when he makes a mess of it, nods it into Kompany's back and it just drops perfectly for Suarez to swing at it. Beats Hart all ends up and it's MANCHESTER CITY 0 BARCELONA 1 (Suarez 16)
12 mins: And now Fernando has given it away... Suarez on the break.. Seems uncertain whether to pass or shoot as he tries to find Messi in the centre. Touch of the Bale feeling obliged to pass to Ronaldo the other night v Schalke? Anyhow, he tries a poor pass, but is lucky that City give it straight back to him. A snap shot is just a foot wide at the near post.
10 mins: Barca have been more or less useless so far, but suddenly Neymar crackles into life, skins Zabaleta with a delightful bit of skill. Slips it to Messi. Excellent tackle from Martin Dimichelis.
8 mins: But Milner doesn't do much with it.
7 mins: Zabaelta has robbed Neymar! City break, Aguero with a dangerous run, Mascherano scythes him down in a bit of a panic. Freekick City.
6 mins: Dzeko gets the ball whacked firmly into his gentleman's area. Needs a minute. Alba the disher out of the pain.
5 mins: Not got going yet. Some poor defending from Barcelona, a simple ball up the middle from Milner, between the centre halves Pique and Mascherano. They allow it to bounce and Dzeko nipped in. Pique recovered.
<noframe>Twitter: Daniel Storey - Get over your annoyance about Qatar's influence in world football by sitting back and enjoying Manchester City v Barcelona. <a href="http://www.twitter.com/TwopTwips" target="_blank">@TwopTwips</a></noframe>
3 mins: Another long ball from Barcelona, this time looking for Suarez. Hart gets above him with some ease.
2 mins: Route one from Barca (!) as Messi comes deep and hits a long ball for Neymar. Kompany has to put it behind for a corner... which comes to nothing.
1 mins: Barcelona play it around at the back, Pique getting onto the ball, City not had a touch in the first 45 seconds or so.
19.45 Barcelona in that DISGUSTING yellow strip. They kick off.
19.42 "The midfield three don't quite have the zip in the legs they used to do. The team don't win the ball back quite so quickly, so they do not have the ball quite so much," says Paul Scholes.
<noframe>Twitter: Phil McNulty - Old habits die hard. Boos from Manchester City's fans when the name of Luis Suarez is read out.</noframe>
19.40 Here's a little wires copy while I get ready for kick off.
Edin Dzeko kept his place in the starting line-up as Manchester City manager Manuel Pellegrini selected an attacking team to face Barcelona in Tuesday's Champions League last 16 first leg.
Dzeko, who scored in City's 5-0 rout of Newcastle United on Saturday, was set to start up front alongside Sergio Aguero, with Fernando and James Milner replacing Fernandinho and the banned Yaya Toure in midfield.
Pellegrini also made two changes in defence, with Martin Demichelis - sent off against Barcelona last season - and Gael Clichy coming into the team in place of Eliaquim Mangala and Aleksandar Kolarov.
For Barcelona, cup goalkeeper Marc-Andre ter Stegen was drafted into the team to replace Claudio Bravo, while Andres Iniesta was preferred to Xavi in midfield.
In total Barcelona coach Luis Enrique made three changes to the side beaten 1-0 by Malaga on Saturday, with Javier Mascherano and Ivan Rakitic replacing Jeremy Mathieu and Rafinha.
Barcelona beat City 4-1 on aggregate when the teams met at this stage of last season's competition and are bidding to reach the quarter-finals for the eighth straight season, while City have never made it to the last eight.
MCFC: Joe Hart; Pablo Zabaleta, Vincent Kompany (capt), Martin Demichelis, Gael Clichy; Samir Nasri, Fernando, James Milner, David Silva; Edin Dzeko, Sergio Aguero. Subs: Caballero, Sagna, Bony, Jesus Navas, Lampard, Mangala, Fernandinho.
Barcelona: Marc-Andre ter Stegen; Dani Alves, Javier Mascherano, Gerard Pique, Jordi Alba; Ivan Rakitic, Sergio Busquets, Andres Iniesta (capt); Lionel Messi, Luis Suarez, Neymar. Subs: Bravo, Xavi, Pedro, Rafinha, Sergi Roberto, Adriano, Mathieu.
19.36 Like so.

19.35 And here's the Barcelona side. Martinez reckons that the front three will be key. Apologies to any laypeople reading who find themselves blinded by science here.
19.32 Roberto Martinez reckons that Milner will add bite to the midfield. Big call to go 4-4-2?

"Attacking team. Is it brave, is it silly? We'll soon find out," says Paul Scholes. In a voice very much suggesting he thinks it is the latter.
19.29 Oh, they've let Pougers inside tonight. I think that is a good thing. Presumably it's baltic in Manchester?

Pougers looks a bit posh for football presenting, to me. I wonder if it'll take. He made a good dayboo last week, mind you.
19.25 Does anyone do this Breathe Sport thing? Can you explain it? So it's like Twitter but...? What is different?

I mean, I like lots of those sports people and would like to hear what they have to say - but it's not like they don't have other outlets for their views, is it? I am confuse. And possibly old and out of touch.
Graeme Le Socks and Sir Gary of Lineker are doing something called a Live Lounge of this match. I hope Gary is wearing a lounge suit. Here's what we've got so far:

Well, you can't say Graeme isn't right.
19.15 Wow. This is some weapons-grade Full Kit Winkering / New Fannery.

Dear God and he must be 45 if he's a day.
19.10 Emmerdale now! Someone's getting arrested. A lady in an overcoat with, erm, a towel around her neck and shoulders has a baby. So far, so good. Not sure about the towel, but whatevs. Oh noes! It would seem that the baby belongs to another lady. Towel lady is being taken off in a police car. Incredible scenes. Is she mad, the towel baby lady? Is that what the costume department were going for, with the whole towel thing? Or is it a misguided fancy dress appearance as Yasser Arafat? Oh, we've gone to commercial.
19.05 So a second big game for Pougers. Keane benched. That's probably not got Pougatch crying into his pre-match coffee.
<noframe>Twitter: ITV Football - Paul Scholes, <a href="http://www.twitter.com/LeeDixon2" target="_blank">@LeeDixon2</a> &amp; <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23EFC" target="_blank">#EFC</a> boss Roberto Martinez joining <a href="http://www.twitter.com/markpougatch" target="_blank">@markpougatch</a> at the Etihad for live coverage of <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23MCFCB" target="_blank">#MCFCB</a></noframe>
19.00 That man Hayward is hammering away on the old camera phone like a chief sportswriter possessed tonight! G'wan Paul. A third excellent scene-setting picture in a row. Here's how the teams are expected to line up.

18.55 The teams. Barcelona in shirt number order. I doubt they're going 4-4-2 with Alba and Alves up front.
Manchester CIty: Zabaleta, Kompany, Demichelis, Clichy, Fernando, Milner, Nasri, Silva, Dzeko, Aguero
Barcelona: Ter Stegen, Piqué, Rakitic, Sergio, Iniesta, Suárez, Messi, Neymar, Mascherano, J.Alba, Alves
18.45 There was quite an interesting moment in last week's Champs League coverage when Jeff Stelling asked Frank Lampard "is it hard to get motivation when you are already champions?" as he tried to unpick why teams have found it so hard to retain the trophy. Frank, to his credit, eschewed the obvious footballer response about "wanting to win every game" and said something like "it's human nature" that your motivation dips slightly.
I wonder if that is a factor, collectively, with Barcelona. They hit such astonishing heights in 2011. How do you match that? Keep it up, likesay? Of course, a couple of big cogs in the machine getting a bit long in the tooth, but I wonder if it is just, like Frank say, human nature.
18.35 Our first email of the evening arrives, from Andrew Holgate. Andrew wins our traditional prize on these big European nights for the first email, which is to say, the honour and admiration of his friends, and the bitter jealousy of his enemies.
When is a good time to play Barca? Despite what critics may say of them, any team with Messi, Neymar and Goofy upfront will be a real challenge. Barca may have lost their talismanic manager but the spine of the team remains, and it is a hell of a spine.
United's decline came as a result of both the manager going and a shockingly poor team by their standards. Barca have added quality, and continue to do so.
That said, City are no push overs and if they play well, we could win tonight. To stand a chance of getting to the quarters (or ronda de ocho in Spain) we have to take a two goal lead to the Nou Camp.
18.30 Ace picture from Paul.

Oh it was a companion piece with the below.

18.15 Chris, in his piece below, touched on how Suarez has gone from being the main man to a backing singer. Here's Nasri on Suarez and Messi:
Samir Nasri has claimed Luis Suarez must accept playing a secondary role to Lionel Messi at Barcelona after describing the Argentine forward as "from another galaxy".
“I think it is different,” former French international Nasri said. “At Liverpool, he [Suarez] was the main striker, but you are not going to score 70 goals playing for Barcelona because he makes a lot of assists and opens up space for Messi and Neymar.
“He is good, he just doesn’t score as much for Barcelona. At Liverpool, the team was built around him, but at Barcelona you cannot do that when you have Messi in his prime.
“When you arrive at a big club, you have to deal with things like that."
Ooh. Does Nasri not think Liverpool are a "big club" then? Come on, the internet, put him straight. RIGHT IN HIS STUPID FACE. If you like. Or maybe he didn't mean any offence. WHO KNOWS?
18.00 Messi had an off-day against Malaga but it was Dani Alves who was ultimately responsible for the defeat - his sloppy back pass gave the ball away for Juanmi to slot home the game's only goal. Just one of those things? Or indications of a poor mindset throughout the Barca team?
17.45 Man CIty obviously have a huge task on their hands in the tie, but on the upside, the Catalan geniuses are coming off the back of a surprise 1-0 defeat by Malaga in the Camp Nou. In their previous away match, Malaga had been spanked 4-1 by Levante. So was it a one-off?
17.30 Enjoyed reading this, from Chris Bascombe, about Suarez and Barcelona.
The common accusation when a player agitates and ultimately achieves his objective to join Barcelona or Real Madrid is that he has succeeded in placing selfish ambition before the needs of the club he is leaving. Luis Suárez was easily categorised as doing so when he left Merseyside for the Nou Camp last summer, the prospect of leading Liverpool to another title challenge or spearheading a Champions League return of no consequence once Barcelona had negotiated a convenient suspension of their transfer embargo.
In fact, whether it was intended that way or not, Suárez’s move to Spain is a rare example of a player making a personal sacrifice in order to sign for Barcelona. Clearly the financial rewards were desirable, and the status of being a Barça rather than Liverpool player is more esteemed these days, but the Uruguayan has undoubtedly compromised his game to become a support rather than the headline act at the Nou Camp.
At a club where Lionel Messi has been described as the unofficial director of football, and in a league where Cristiano Ronaldo is said to be enduring a goal drought if he goes 45 minutes without troubling the scorers, Suárez is simply one of many magnificent players who must defer to the big two.
17.15 Paul Merson has broken his silence! He's named his combined Man City v Barcelona team on Sky Sports. It reads: Hart; Zabaleta, Mascherano, Kompany, Alba; Xavi, Iniesta, Silva; Neymar, Messi, Aguero.
"I have to admit, I don't know a great deal about Barcelona's keeper [Claudio] Bravo," Merson told Sky Sports.
"He's never stood out to me, but Joe Hart has, and when he's on form he's a top, top keeper."
Shock revelations from Merse there. I was looking for him to say loads of interesting things about Barcelona's keeper [Claudio] Bravo.
17.00 Hello! We are taking the long run-up for this exciting Champions League game tonight, and I look forward to bringing you all the news and build-up ahead of the kick off.
Preview below.
-----
Manchester City playmaker Samir Nasri feels it is about time he finally got the better of Barcelona.
Nasri has had little joy in his previous encounters with Barca and wants to change that as City challenge the Catalan giants for a place in the Champions League quarter-finals.
City and Nasri were beaten by Barca, 4-1 on aggregate, at the same last-16 stage of last year's competition.
And the Frenchman was also twice knocked out by the Spanish side during his earlier career with Arsenal, in 2010 and 2011.
Nasri said: "I just hope this time I am going to go through for once because I have always lost against Barcelona in this stage of the Champions League."
Nasri insists City are not motivated by revenge as they aim to succeed where they failed last season.
But as they prepare for the first leg of this season's tie at the Etihad Stadium, Nasri does think City are much tougher proposition than a year ago.
The 27-year-old said: "I think we respected them too much but, at the same time, last year didn't have enough experience to compete with a club like this, with its history. They know how to win the Champions League.
"I think it was just too much of a big game for us. We were not ready. But I think this year is totally different."
"We want to beat Barcelona because we want to go as far as possible in the Champions League, not because we want revenge."
Alan Tyers will be here from 6pm to bring you team news, build up and live coverage
