http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/640204/s/43c16486/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Ccompetitions0Cchampions0Eleague0C1143310A0A0CManchester0ECity0E10EBarcelona0E20Ematch0Ereport0EJoe0EHart0Ekeeps0EEuropean0Edream0Ealive0Eafter0ELuis0ESuarez0Edouble0Bhtml/story01.htm
Manchester City 1 Barcelona 2, match report: Joe Hart keeps European dream alive after Luis Suarez double
By Henry Winter, Football Correspondent, at the Etihad Stadium
11:59PM GMT 24 Feb 2015
Comments
Luis Suárez ruthlessly exposed flaws in Manchester City’s defence and in Manuel Pellegrini’s tactics as Barcelona took a huge stride towards the quarter-finals of the Champions League. Suárez was superb, scoring twice in the first half, while Lionel Messi was magical at times. Only Joe Hart’s reflexes, including a penalty stop from Messi, prevented City enduring further damage.
City travel to the Nou Camp with 4,000 fans, and with a tweak of hope given by Sergio Agüero’s second-half strike, but there was always a feeling that Barcelona could move up a gear here. Suárez was a tireless marauder of a centre-forward, leading Vincent Kompany a painful dance.
City’s defence lacked authority and composure, and particularly lacked a proper shield in front of them.
Class act: Luis Suárez reels away in celebration after scoring his first goal of the evening at the Etihad Stadium. Photo: ACTION IMAGES
Pellegrini defended his tactics afterwards yet it was so risky going with such an open 4-4-2 against such skilful ball-users as Barcelona. Edin Dzeko was subdued alongside Sergio Agüero and neither tracked back with much conviction to assist the struggling midfielders.
Bad Kompany - Man City captain is in decline
Manchester City vs Barcelona: as it happened
Player ratings: Brilliant Suarez edges out Aguero
Pellegrini: Blame the players, not my tactics
There is considerable talent in the City ranks, certainly enough to win the Premier League twice in the last three years, but probably only Hart and Agüero would get in Barcelona’s XI and, of course, Yaya Touré, who was badly missed through suspension here. Yet there remains the feeling that Pellegrini should still be doing more with the talent at his disposal.
He chose Fernando ahead of Fernandinho, a surprise given respective form. Fernando and James Milner, who have rarely worked together in central midfield, were overwhelmed by Andres Iniesta, Sergio Busquets and Ivan Rakitic. Messi constantly dropped in off the flank to build moves from the centre, an architect of Barcelona dreams to rival the great Gaudi. He assisted Suárez’s first with a ball in and then helped create the second with a swaying run, drifting past opponents like a deer weaving through a cornfield. His display was spiced with a dash past Gaël Clichy here, a shimmy past Fernando there.
At one point in the second half, Messi plucked a looping ball from Rakitic out of the sky almost to gasps of amazement. It was a privilege to watch one of the greatest players of all time, a player who could control a snowflake in a storm, a player of such renown that everyone from Sir Alex Ferguson to Roy Hodgson attended to pay homage.
A missed penalty late on was a reminder of Messi’s mortality, but also of his relentless hunger for goals, for that Champions League scoring duel with Cristiano Ronaldo. It also highlighted his dominance at Barcelona with Suárez briefly looking as if he wanted to take the kick, so completing his hat-trick, but Messi ignored him.
There was a touch of the matador in the way Barcelona weakened poor old John Bull; Messi and Iniesta kept passing and moving, draining the life from the hosts, before suddenly accelerating and going for the jugular.
Messi was the brains and heartbeat of Barcelona. Kompany’s claim that Stoke City could be “tougher” than Barcelona seemed even more bizarre. A front-line of Neymar-Suárez-Messi was always going to offer more than Peter Crouch.
It was not simply about the touches of class that lit up the 62 per cent possession enjoyed by Barcelona. It was not only their passing accuracy, embodied by Messi finding a team-mate with 59 of his 66 passes, Iniesta picking out a colleague with 73 of his 78. Many were over short distance, simple circulation of the ball, but others were over range, often delivered through the eye of the narrowest of needles.
Barcelona’s performance was a celebration of possession, a blend of stamina and speed. Their work-rate was formidable too. Luis Enrique’s players covered a mile further collectively than Pellegrini’s. Reports of their demise have been greatly exaggerated; Barcelona remain more than a threat.
Strike one: Suárez fires in his first goal of the match Photo: GETTY IMAGES
Suárez has often been utilised wide by Enrique but was moved centrally here to devastating effect. It had to be Suárez opening the scoring, then adding the second. The script demanded it. It had to be the striker who left these shores as Footballer of the Year and Player of the Year, who went off to the World Cup and became a global pariah for biting Italy’s Giorgio Chiellini, and was subsequently sold by Liverpool. It had to be Suárez returning and inflicting damage, reminding an English audience of his relentless, intelligent movement and ruthlessness with the ball at his feet.
Hart had known all about Suárez’s threat, having been beaten twice by the Uruguayan when England lost in Sao Paulo at the World Cup. Yet Suárez had scored only once before against City in six attempts at Liverpool, albeit a stupendous free-kick. Left unprotected by his defence, Hart had little chance of stopping Suárez’s first after 16 minutes.
When Messi swept in a cross, the ball struck Kompany and bounced kindly for Suárez. His left foot did the rest. As he celebrated, there seemed an extra passion with which Suárez kissed his wrists tattooed with the names of his children. City were shocked, given a lesson in the art of possession.
Take that: Suárez wasted little time in doubling up as Barca handed City a lesson Photo: GETTY IMAGES
Suárez’s second goal almost arrived after 27 minutes when he received a sublime ball from Messi but failed to nutmeg Hart. Within three minutes, Suárez did have his second goal. Messi released Jordi Alba, who whipped the ball in picking out the run of Suárez who had ghosted ahead of Martin Demichelis to score with a flick past Hart.
The sound of “olé” emanating from the away quarter was replaced by radio commentators competing for the longest “goaaaal”. There were sighs of frustration and respect from the City supporters. This was painful, a reprise of past anguish against Messi and company. City managed to stay faintly in touch before the break only through the reflexes of Hart, particularly with one save from Messi, while he was relieved when Dani Alves’s shot hit the bar.
Grim outlook: Manuel Pelligrini appeared distraught after going 2-0 down Photo: REX FEATURES
Pellegrini eschewed any changes at the break, but there was a shift in tempo and commitment. Their fans sang “We’re Manchester City – we’ll fight to the end” as their team attempted an unlikely rescue mission. From a David Silva corner, Kompany flicked the ball on but Dzeko aimed his header straight at Marc-André ter Stegen.
Back came Barcelona, Messi beating Clichy with skill and speed. Clichy was then booked for bringing down Ivan Rakitic, ruling him out of the Nou Camp return. Pellegrini sent on Fernandinho for Samir Nasri, who seemed particularly unimpressed with the decision.
City’s manager then swapped the disappointing Dzeko for Wilfried Bony after 68 minutes. Within 60 seconds, City pulled one back, giving them hope in the tie. David Silva found Agüero with a terrific pass, the Argentine powered through and thumped his shot past ter Stegen.
Clichy then departed for a second yellow, fouling Alves, continuing a recent theme against Barcelona with City also losing Demichelis and Pablo Zabaleta to red cards at this stage last season. Hart then tipped over a Messi shot before superbly beating away Messi’s penalty after the forward had been brought down by Zabaleta.
