http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/571918/s/269511d2/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cengland0C97442350CUefas0Ecowardly0Ereaction0Eagainst0ESerbian0Eracists0Etakes0EEuropean0Egame0Eseveral0Esteps0Ebackwards0Bhtml/story01.htm
Uefa’s cowardly reaction against Serbian racists takes European game several steps backwards
By Henry Winter, Football Correspondent
11:06PM GMT 13 Dec 2012
Comments
How do you stride down the corridors of power in those elegant, genteel corridors on Lake Geneva and plead for some humanity, for some robust response to Serbian hatred to visitors? Sadly, football has been down this rutted road before, wondering and whimpering as black English players are taunted and demeaned. Uefa whispers its concern. Pathetic. It’s all talk the talk, never walk the walk in Nyon. On the banks of Lake Geneva, they organise picnics rather than search parties for the lost moral compass of European football.
But come on. Enough is enough. Uefa’s president, Michel Platini, surely has to feel the widespread anger towards Serbia, towards their shocking treatment of the likes of the England Under-21s fullback Danny Rose. Platini must understand what Rose went through. He was a guest of a country which abused him on account of his skin colour.
Does Platini want xenophobes influencing his competitions? Of course not, so ban them. Not for one game. European football has been here before with these shameless Serbs. Ban them for a year, for all levels, hurting their pride and sponsors. Make them at least acknowledge the cancer within.
But hang on. Who is the Serbia coach? Sinisa Mihajlovic. Good player, blessed with a thunderous free kick and more? Well, yes. Talk to anyone at Arsenal. On Oct 17, 2000, Patrick Vieira was racially abused by Mihajlovic, who later apologised for his offensive comments.
Tainting a whole nation with the same allegations would be excessive but these are wearisomely familiar allegations. Ask anyone with any familiarity of European football. Back in 2007, at a Uefa Under-21 event well-attended with the organisation’s dignitaries, Nedum Onuoha was racially abused by the Serbs. Uefa deemed that Onuoha’s pain would be salved with a €12,000 plaster. Just nonsense. Nonsense.
FA 'disappointed' with Serbia fine
Serbia fined paltry £65,900
Uefa postpone Serbia racism hearing
Ince: U21 were all scared in Serbia
Two England players charged
Caulker and Lees face Serb charges
The wound runs deeper, burrowed down into a society that needs to wake up. Countries like Serbia need to focus on education, education, education, addressing the lack of awareness within, making the next generation understand that it is not right to repeat the sins of their fathers. Black players stepping out on to Serbian pitches must be respected.
There are calls for England to refuse to face Serbia in the future but such cold-shouldering does not work. England need to work with Serbia, drawing on sporting principles to enlighten them. When it comes to moral high-grounds, the English can just about climb on to a molehill, not a mountain.
Yet there has been minimal trouble at tournaments since 2000, the incidents affecting the current game are minimal compared to events in the 70s and 80s while the FA under David Bernstein and Alex Horne has shown commendable alacrity in tackling racism.
Each official knows that FA punishments for racism, such as bans for Luis Suárez and John Terry, are insufficient. Each wants stricter censures. The FA, for all its flaws, drives in the right direction. Uefa, unfortunately, stalls again and again.
Take Nicklas Bendtner. Platini fined the Danish striker €100,000 for revealing a bookies’ logo on his knickers at euro 2012, reflecting Nyon’s greater concern for any event that impinges on their financial imperatives.
The FA is right to challenge Uefa, right to bolster its own tariff against racist acts or words. Influential English players like Rio Ferdinand must also lead the fight to Uefa’s door. Given Uefa’s shallow response on Thursday, Platini needs educating himself.
