http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604257/s/360dbae5/sc/8/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cjournalists0Cpippa0Emiddleton0C10A5772440CPippa0EMiddleton0EBoris0Eshould0Ebe0Escared0Eof0Emy0Etable0Etennis0Eskills0Bhtml/story01.htm
Pippa Middleton: Boris should be scared of my table tennis skills
By Pippa Middleton
7:00AM GMT 18 Jan 2014
Pippa Middleton gets a table-tennis lesson
My fondness for table tennis is well-documented but as Boris “whiff whaff” Johnson has yet to take up my challenge – issued last year via The Spectator magazine (Boris, I’m still waiting?) - I’ve had to look elsewhere for a game.
So to Kemnal Technology College in Sidcup, Kent, where I met the wonderful Len and Julie Pilfold. They are hard-core fans of whiff-whaff and for some 30-plus years have commuted from their home in New Eltham to run, on a volunteer basis, community-based table tennis ventures. For 21 years they were located at nearby Eltham Manor Church Hall before moving, in 2003, to establish the Kemnal Table Tennis Club.
For Len and Julie, smartly dressed in Joola aertexes (a supercool brand for table tennis players BTW) and exuding a vitality and energy that belies their years (more of which later), table tennis has been a way of life since they met a staggering 60 years ago. In fact, the game was a factor in their romance. “It was 1953,” Julie explained. “I wanted to play badminton, so I went to my local shop with ten shillings but could only afford a table tennis bat. As I was on my way to my nearby club, I met Len on the bus who showed me the way. That was how it all started, or rather that was the end of my life,” she laughs.
The Kemnal Table Tennis Club is the largest in south-east London, and it’s not only a club for the local community, welcoming families and individuals alike (there are 180 members and 14 teams), but also provides a venue for the local boroughs, leagues, clubs and schools in Dartford, Lewisham and Brockley to enjoy. Bats and balls are free, so are drinks and KitKats. Sessions run between 7pm and 10:30pm four nights a week and cost around £3 for child members and £4 for adults.
Pippa Middleton: 'Are oysters really an aphrodisiac?
Pippa Middleton flamenco
Pippa Middleton at New Covent Garden Flower Market
Pippa's boxing praised by Nicola Adams
Pippa Middleton at Fitzroy Lodge Amateur Boxing Club
Pippa Middleton's Boxing Bites: green chicken quinoa
Len and Julie are hands-on in every sense. Together they put up the 15 tables in the College Sports Hall, store them away after the games and sweep the floor. They also arrange coaching for their members – there is professional coaching available for those who want to play seriously – with Julie teaching beginners and Len (who has an impressive ping pong portfolio, including being current Vice President of the English Table Tennis Association) overseeing the organisation of the junior competitions. He has 12 teams playing in the local leagues.
He’s also the chief “rubber-fixer” for table tennis bats. Children bring in their scrappy bats and he re-rubbers them to give extra spin on the balls. “It’s all about keeping them keen and being jolly about it all,” Julie tells me. I considered handing over my own – it’s not often you meet a skilled bat-mender.
I’d been reluctant to ask them how old they were but Len happily volunteered the information anyway. “I’m 83 and Julie is 78,” he said proudly. I was blown away and alarmed that I’d be risking my youthful pride if I challenged one of them to a game and got beaten. This dynamic pair, Len a former RAF instrument mechanic who later spent 12 years as an insurance worker, and Julie, a former draughtswoman, show no signs of acting their age.
Len told me that they have members from as young as six up to 80-plus. “We’ve become good friends with so many of our members that some come back to visit and show us their babies,” Julie says. She tells me she and Len, who have a son and daughter, are grandparents to three now.
The week is structured with an earlier children’s session on Monday nights followed by adults’ tuition; a match and general practice night on Wednesdays and a community night on Fridays for anyone to join in. Saturdays are competition days.
“Dads bring their kids, the older children play with younger ones and there’s always a pleasant atmosphere with no arguments,” Len says. “Table tennis is a surprisingly sociable sport and members mingle with each other. Often it is the youngsters beating the bigger kids.” (Maybe skill over brawn will give me a chance against Boris after all?)
Julie told me about one desperately shy 11-year-old boy who came to their club in the evenings but wouldn’t talk to anyone, even his grandfather who’d brought him along. Within two weeks of starting to play table tennis, he was chatting away to everyone. “He went on to be a chef,” she said proudly.
The club caters for wheelchair users, the standing disabled and those with learning difficulties, some of whom have gone on to represent Great Britain. Julie told me that Will Bayley, runner up in the 2012 Paralympics in London and born with arthrogryposis (a rare condition that causes the joints to curve) was once a member of their club and Len would help him enter tournaments when he was starting out. Similarly, James Meyers, who became the 2013 Deaf Senior National Champion, used to play at the club in the school holidays and at weekends.
Len organises table tennis tournaments over the weekends but said that it is difficult to find venues that don’t charge him a fortune: “The councils used to lend us their local sports halls, but now that leisure companies have taken them over, it’s become too expensive.” His big ambition is to build a new centre at Kemnal Technology College, but funds are an issue.
Before I departed, Len and Julie agreed to assess my table tennis technique. They are evangelical about the sport, launching into the history of the game and the way it increases flexibility while sharpening reactivity. It’s the fastest and most popular indoor sport in the world (I learned that the world record is 180 shots in a minute, by Japanese players in 2011) with some 300 million players globally.
Julie and I began a gentle – initially – knock-up but then she whipped out an aggressive backhand topspin that left me in heap as I tried, and failed, to return it. She proceeded to tell me exactly what was wrong with my strokes as the balls clipped into the net one after the other: “Keep your elbow in Pippa, and flick your wrist upwards,” she instructed. I didn’t tell them I once played in the U13 National Championships in Milton Keynes because things had clearly declined in the intervening years.
I found Len and Julie’s proficiency at the game and their dedication to making it accessible to all totally inspiring. Their small bat and ball community is having an impact on so many lives week in, week out. I might need to get in on the act. Suddenly, a few nights a week at KTTC to prepare me for the Boris encounter (when it happens) seem like an awfully good idea.
Ping slushie recipe
Slush puppies seem to be the hottest and coolest drink on the table tennis scene. This boozy recipe is from Ping, the restaurant, bar and ping pong hub in Earls Court, London.
Makes one slushie:
40ml vodka
25ml passion fruit juice
15ml lime juice
15ml sugar syrup (add one part basic table sugar to one part water)
25ml orange juice
10 ice cubes
Add all ingredients to a blender and whizz to slush consistency.
weloveping.com
Pippa's picks
1. Top read: Operation Mincemeat by Ben Macintyre. This thrilling book is the true story of the Montagu brothers, who invented the rules for table tennis at university. Ivor Montagu went on to found the International Table Tennis Federation before serving as its president for 41 years.
2. Pong Bot: a robot ball machine. I tried one of these at Pongathon in London’s Shoreditch: at £800 they aren’t cheap but they get you good really quickly! pongathon.com
3. Go neon: get glow in the dark net, balls and bats, then pre-charge them and play whiff-whaff with the lights off. Perfect for stormy nights. amazon.co.uk
4. Add beer: to play 'Beer Pong’, an American university-invented game. It involves lining up cups of beer on each side of the table and firing balls into them. Get the full kit at americanpong.co.uk
5. Ping pong hotspots: Holborn’s Bounce, Bristol’s Kings of Ping and Manchester’s Kosmonaut are just a few. bouncepingpong.com; pingpongengland.co.uk; kosmonaut.co
For further details of the Kemnal Table Tennis Club, see kemnalttc.co.uk. To find more ping pong clubs around the UK, go to etta.co.uk
Read more: Pippa Middleton: the thrills and frills of learning flamenco
Read more: Pippa Middleton: it's bliss to be up early for a flower market
