http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/571759/s/33c7da49/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cmotorsport0Cformulaone0C10A4557680CUnited0EStates0EGrand0EPrix0E20A130Elive0Bhtml/story01.htm
United States Grand Prix 2013: live
By Daniel Johnson
5:42PM GMT 17 Nov 2013

• Vettel wins eighth consecutive race, breaking the record for a season • Force India's Sutil crashes out, forcing early safety car
WRAP: What to say? The record breaker carries on breaking records. This time it's by winning eight races consecutively in a season.
Although everyone predicts a Vettel win before every race, if you think about it it's still a little bit ridiculous that he can dominant everyone (including his teammate) quite so thoroughly.
Thanks for joining me today, see you next time for the final race of the season (and of this specification of cars) in Brazil! 2014 can't come soon enough.
20:54 If you're an F1 fan and you don't end up inadvertently singing along to the German national anthem by now, then there's something wrong with you.
First the Schumacher days, now the Vettel days - it's near as makes no difference the soundtrack to Formula One at the moment, at least when the races are all said and done.

20:51: The Telegraph's Tom Cary reacts to Vettel's win on Twitter:
<noframe>Twitter: Tom Cary - Was it ever in doubt? Vettel wins US GP by a comfortable margin from Grosjean then cracks out a few doughnuts as is becoming customary</noframe>
20:47 Vettel sounds genuinely a little bit emotional about this. He says he's "speechless" at becoming the first man to win eight races in a row in a season.
He tells the team to "remember these times, because they may not last forever". We haven't seen dominance like this for a long time. Special, special stuff.
And then the customary doughnuts!

While I get the chance, worth mentioning that Bottas has done a sterling job all weekend. A stunning eighth for him - driver of the day for me.
Lap 56: Grosjean comes home second, Webber third, Hamilton fourth, and Alonso holds onto fifth!
Hulkenberg gave it his all, but he finishes sixth, ahead of Perez, Bottas, Rosberg and then Button.
Perez scores points for the third consecutive race - his ditching from McLaren seems all the more harsh after this one.
Lap 56: Tremendous stuff from Alonso and Hulkenberg on the final lap! The German gets through into turn one, but then Alonso immediately retakes him. Alonso holds on in the DRS zone, and out front, SEBASTIAN VETTEL WINS THE US GRAND PRIX!
Lap 55: My prediction that Webber would win, and then that he would finish second seems pretty foolish now.
Jenson Button is swarming all over the back of Ricciardio in the battle for the final points position!
He gets DRS on the pit straight, goes round the outside into turn one, and then squeezes through on the inside heading towards turn two.

Lap 54: Lotus seem increasingly sure that their man is going to equal his best ever finish in F1.
<noframe>Twitter: Lotus F1 Team - Fastest lap from <a href="http://www.twitter.com/RGrosjean" target="_blank">@RGrosjean</a>; he's not giving up that P2 without a darn good fight! Epic stuff! <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23F1" target="_blank">#F1</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23USGP" target="_blank">#USGP</a></noframe>
Meanwhile Rocky tells Seb: "The only man that you can beat you today is yourself". He does love going for fastest laps at the end of the race, much to the annoyance of his team.
Lap 53: And Webber is out of DRS range now after getting out of shape in the middle of the lap. Seems to be basically over for Webber now as far as second place goes.
He tells the team: "I'm losing the rear tyres".
Lap 52: Webber is told to save all his KERS for the main DRS zone, but it doesn't work this time around.
He's still stuck behind the Frenchman, and seems to be running out of options (and laps) to get through.

Lap 51: Bizarrely Grosjean and Webber are catching Vettel, but not quickly enough to trouble the German. Kovalainen moves himself up into 15th past Maldonado on the pit straight - not a lot of room was given there at all.
Can Webber hang on to the back of Grosjean this time around so he gets the job done in the DRS zone?
Lap 50: Webber just needs to keep it tidy and stay close in the opening sector, but he seems to be struggling in the turbulent air of the Lotus.
Bottas is holding onto eighth at the minute, doing a fine job.
Lap 49: Once again Webber is very close on the long straight, and the Lotus pit wall are looking very nervous about their man's chances of holding onto second.
The Australian has six laps to get it done.
Lap 48: We're onboard with Mark Webber now, and it looks as if Red Bull have given him the green light to attack the Frenchman rather than chill out behind.
Webber gains all the time down the straight into turn 12, but he decides against a lunge down the inside this time.

Lap 47: Alonso takes a second out of Hamilton on that lap, and is rapidly gaining on the fourth place man.
Webber also takes 0.7 seconds out of Grosjean.
Lap 46: Vettel sounds ridiculously chilled out on team radio. Rocky seems relaxed, and Vettel replies: "Let me know if there's anything going on." As far as the lead of the race is concerned, there isn't anything threatening him at all.
Lap 45: And Fernando is through! He gets much better drive out of the first corner and is ahead of the German before turn two.

Lap 44: Alonso moves very close in the first sector, and is right with him into the long straight before turn 11. Infuriatingly, the director decides we shouldn't watch him closing in on the Sauber.
Ricciardo has moved past di Resta with a beautiful late lunge into turn one. It looked as if he was going round the outside, but at the last minute switched to the inside.
Lap 43: 13 laps to go, and unsurprisingly if you're just joining this blog, Vettel leads.
Webber is yo-yoing behind Grosjean 10 seconds down the road.
Alonso is right with Hulkenberg now, and has clearly decided now is the time to attack. He's in DRS range now.

Lap 42: Rocky seems a tad concerned that Vettel's tyres aren't going to last all that comfortably to the end of the race, but given the German's magnificent tyre management skills I can't see that happening.
How long does Webber leave it before he attacks Grosjean?
Lap 41: Clearly both the Ferraris have been given the hurry up, and Alonso is now charging after Hulkenberg and Hamilton.
Vettel is setting fastest laps out but it seems pretty comfortable.
Ricciardo sends a HUGE lunge into turn one on di Resta, and just about backs out of it to save his front wing.
Lap 40: Bottas remains in eighth, but it's not all secured for him just yet, with a fast Rosberg and di Resta behind.
Webber is holding station behind Grosjean at the moment, seemingly biding his time.
Lap 38: The Telegraph's Formula One correspondent tweets from Austin:
<noframe>Twitter: Tom Cary - Nothing so far to match pre-race spectacle of Bernie in midst of Dallas Cowgirls</noframe>
Webber eats into Grosjean's gap at will - maybe he was just saving tyres for a few laps?
And if things stay as they are, Alonso will be confirmed as runner up the championship to Vettel, for the third time in four seasons.
Lap 37: Something definitely went wrong for Webber there - he's lost two seconds in the space of two laps.
Not entirely clear what the cause was, but his pace has stabilised once more.
Hamilton is a second or so ahead of Hulkenberg in fourth - that seems like the maximum for the Brit today.
Lap 36: Webber was closing in on Grosjean, but has suddenly fallen back... Seems like he must have made a mistake somewhere, possibly trying to pass the Frenchman. Or does he have a mechanical problem?
He has 20 laps to get the job done. Vettel is well on course to become the first man to win eight races in a row in a single season.
Lap 35: Bottas is fighting Guttierez for 8th, and I cannot tell you how important it is he doesn't make any contact here.
Patience Bottas! And brilliantly he's through into turn two. Brave, brave move considering he hasn't scored points all season.
I really expected something to go wrong there, but he was given just up space and is through!

Lap 34: Yet more super overtaking into turn 12 by Nico Rosberg! He dives down the inside on di Resta to move up to 10th. He was a long way back there.
Just over 20 laps to go, and I have to be honest with you that this has been a fairly quiet one so far.
Lap 33: Webber is now in DRS range of Grosjean, and is closing in. Bottas remains in the points, which would be huge for Williams given they they have only scored one point all season.
Lap 32: Ross Brawn is speaking to Sky from the pit wall - he doesn't sound all that happy about Hamilton's team radio grumpiness. "We're learning to deal with that", he says.
Maybe I'm reading too much into it, but Hamilton is certainly not a happy bunny this afternoon.
Grosjean is 10.2 seconds behind Vettel, and Webber is just over a second further back.
Lap 31: In the battle of the Mexicans, Perez gets past Guttierez on the pit straight into seventh. The Sauber man got out of shape on the last two corners and that enabled Perez to cruise past on the straight.

Webber meanwhile is moving ominously towards second place.
Lap 30: Kovalainen's slight rustiness is starting to show, as Paul di Resta in a slower Force India gets past.
Webber looks much closer to Grosjean than he did before the stops. Surely another Red Bull 1-2 on the cards?
Hamilton sounds utterly miserable on team radio. He makes demands of his race engineer for more information about his pace, the tyres, and whether to push harder or not.
Lap 29: Grosjean does pit this time around, and Vettel retakes the lead of the race. They should all go to the end of these tyres.
Lap 28: Webber is in the pits, and it's a frankly outrageous 2.3 second pit stop.

Grosjean, in his tyre-friendly Lotus, stays out and is in the lead. And down the slope into turn two a brave and brilliant move from Alonso to get past Guttierez to get up into sixth place.
Lap 27: Lots more action in the pits now, as Vettel comes in from the lead.
Was that an unsafe release? He's very close to Max Chilton as he leaves his box but I don't think he'll be penalised for that.
Hulkenberg comes in and rejoins behind Hamilton.
Lap 26: And this time around Perez gets past Vergne into eighth place. Pretty straightforward stuff for the Mexican there.

And then a classic TV moment for Ted Kravitz, as he muses, "not much sign of Alonso in the pits yet", and then Alonso comes straight into the pits as he says it.
He just gets out ahead of Perez, but is behind the Sauber of Guttierez.
Lap 25: Grosjean has actually gained ever so slightly on Vettel on that lap, maybe by a tenth of a second or so.
Vergne has a swarm Mexicans all over him, as Guttierez gets past and then Perez tries to do the same.
Hamilton pits, and crucially, he comes out in sixth ahead of that whole scrap.
Lap 24: Kovalainen's early pit stop seems to have done him a few favours, as he gains three places through the stops, but it may hurt him at the end of the race.
Bottas pits, and it's relatively slow at 3.8 seconds. He rejoins in 10th.
Grosjean is 8.1 behind Vettel, and Webber is steadily gaining on the Frenchman.
Lap 23: Perez pits as he just manages to hold off Alonso, and he drops to 10th. The Spaniard stays out - he'll be hoping to hold on to these tyres for little bit longer to jump the Mexican.
Lap 22: Kevin Eason speculates on what commentary teams are talking about in this incident-sparse race.
<noframe>Twitter: Kevin Eason - How is trace playing on telly back home? Bet commentators are talking about the weather, the crowds, the cheerleaders, WAGs - anything</noframe>
Massa has been told to "box" at the end of the lap, will he make it out in front of Jenson? A good 2.7 second pit stop, and he's out in front!
Jenson tries to have a look in the right-left-right of the opening sector but doesn't manage it.

Lap 20: Button is stuck behind Massa in 13th, and behind those two its Vergne and then Guttierez.
The Brit comes in at the end of the lap - seems possible that he can go to the end with 35 laps left on the hard tyres.
None of the leaders have come in yet, and Vettel leads by 8.3 seconds.
Lap 19: In the absence of much to tell you about on the track, bravo Jenson! (See the tweet below). Although I have a feeling he won't be all that happy right now, sitting outside the top 10.
<noframe>Twitter: Sky F1 Insider - Today Jenson Button joins David Coulthard as the most experienced British F1 driver with 246 race starts! Well done JB <a href="http://www.twitter.com/JensonButton" target="_blank">@JensonButton</a></noframe>
One piece of on track news, Nico Rosberg moves up to 10th past Ricciardo, and he struggles to shake the Australian for the next few corners.
Lap 18: This summarises F1 at the moment, to be honest, as Rocky tells Vettel it's about distance and not speed.
He's told to keep his pace steady to make his first stint as long as possible.
Lap 17: Onboard with the German, and it doesn't seem even remotely stressful driving his Red Bull. He makes it look so ludicrously easy.
Hamilton complains on team radio that he's all out of grip, and it looks as if he's going to be heading for a two stop rather than the marginally faster one.

Meanwhile Kovalainen is in the pits - he's doing an admirable job considering he's been drafted in but he's struggling to match his teammates pace.
Lap 16: Quick mention for Bottas - he's doing a brilliant job in eighth. He looks like he might be edging towards his first points in Formula One.
The gap between Vettel and Grosjean is 6.3 seconds and steadily building. I get the feeling though that the German is toying with Grosjean, and only driving as quickly as he needs to.
Lap 15: Hulkenberg in fifth gets some encouragement from his race engineer, as he's told he's gaining on Hamilton at the rate of 0.7 seconds a lap.
Hamilton will be even more moody if he gets stuck behind the Sauber for the umteenth time in the second half of this season. All quiet out front.
Lap 14: Here's Mark Webber getting the job done on Lewis Hamilton; impressive stuff. Also impressive how much later he was able to brake than the Mercedes man.

Hamilton sounds seriously grumpy on team radio.
Lap 13: "That's what I'm doing man, let me focus!", Hamilton complains to his race engineer, after being told to protect his tyres.
And on the same lap, Webber flies round the outside into turn 12! Great move by the Australian, as he's up to second. Grosjean is next in his sights.
Lap 12: After seemingly protecting his tyres and hanging back, Webber is cruising back up to Hamilton. He's 10 seconds off his teammate now and my predictions of a race win for the Australian are looking a tad foolish.

Lap 11: Fernando Alonso has a very late lunge on Perez into turn one! Thankfully he backs out, and avoids another major headache after suffering persistent problems since his aerial moment Abu Dhabi.
Meanwhile the Sky boys are a bit confused about the "pretty girls" FOM's directors keep cutting to. They do seem to enjoy pointing out the drivers' girlfriends.
Perez is in sixth, with his teammate Button down in 14th. What a miserable weekend for the Brit so far.
Lap 10: Sorry to make it seem like I'm prodding Maldonado, but I would suggest Williams tweet below explains why the Venezuelan is a bit miffed this weekend:
<noframe>Twitter: Williams F1 Team - We are back racing with <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23BOTTAS" target="_blank">#BOTTAS</a> P8 and Pastor P16</noframe>
Amusingly Rob Smedley has just been giving Felippe Massa advice on which gears he should be using in certain corners. Is that not part of Massa's job description as "driver"?
Lap 9: There's a small train developing behind Nico Hulkenberg in 5th, with Perez and Alonso tucked up behind.
Vettel is increasing his lead lap by lap. We should've expected it really.
Lap 8: Guttierez is cruising through the back of the field after having to pit with a puncture. Maldonado complains of "vibrations" in the car.
Your front wing is dragging on the floor, Pastor, if you hadn't noticed. He's in to the pits. Who will he blame for this one? Moany Maldonado I think he should now be known.

And Vettel leads by 3.4 seconds. Grosjean a comfortable second, Hamilton 3rd, Webber 4th.
Lap 7: DRS is now enabled, and that spells trouble for Hamilton. Webber isn't quite close enough this time, but it doesn't seem like it will be too long.
Not too many other tight battles to report in the top 10 at least so far.
Lap 6: Vettel's set fastest lap - a 1:44.0 - and has built a comfortable lead of 2.4 seconds already. They are all following in formation behind at the moment, and surprisingly Alonso isn't that close to the back of Perez at the moment as he sits in seventh.
The pace of Webber's Red Bull is starting to show though, as he cruises up to the back of Hamilton.
Lap 5: And we're racing once more in Austin! Vettel goes early and he's left Grosjean already, with a second lead as they cross the line. Textbook from the German as you would expect.
Perez has a look at the Sauber of Hulkenberg, and is a man keen to impress in front of plenty of Mexicans in Texas. He doesn't manage to get alongside this time, but is chomping at the bit.
Lap 4: I don't think you're wrong Andrew:
<noframe>Twitter: Andrew Benson - Correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe that is the first time all season Alonso has lost a place off the start</noframe>
Sutil's car is now being moved out of the way, and it looks as if we only have one more lap under the safety car.
This little opening salvo means it will be just a tad easier for the teams to one-stop in this evening's race.
Lap 3: Quick rundown of the order while we're under the safety car: Vettel, Grosjean, Hamilton, Webber, Hulkenberg, Perez, Alonso, Bottas, Di Resta, Ricciardo, Rosberg, Kovaleinen.
Here's Grosjean and Hamilton streaking around the outside of Webber at the start. From the replays it doesn't actually seem like the Australian had too shocking a getaway but he became bunched behind his teammate and lost out as a result.

Lap 2: They're all following the safety car as the debris from the Force India is cleared.
Sutil moved to the left without realising the Williams of Maldonado was so close alongside him - seems like the German's fault that one from initial replays.
Here's the subsequent wreckage:

Lap 1: Classic poor starting from Mark Webber, as he gets bogged down at the start and drops to fourth! Vettel is away cleanly, and Grosjean is up to second and Hamilton is up to third.
And a big crash for Adrian Sutil! And we have the safety car! All calm for a moment after a franctic start.
19:03 They're all lined up on the grid, with no dramas on the formation lap, apart from some slow cars at the back. We have one light, two lights, three lights, four lights, five lights, AND WE'RE RACING IN AUSTIN!
19:00 Here's the view from above turn one, which shows just how steep the climb from the start is. We're on the formation lap now.

18:59 And just quickly, before we get underway, the consensus even before the race seems to be that the US Grand Prix in Austin has been a success. Kevin Eason of The Times seems to agree.
<noframe>Twitter: Kevin Eason - <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23USGrandPrix" target="_blank">#USGrandPrix</a> ready to go. Big congrats to the organisers here for putting one of the best events on the F1 calemdar</noframe>
18:57 Just a few minutes from the start now, and its predictions time.
There has been a lot of chatter about the durability of Sebastian Vettel's gearbox - it's on his fifth race and he's already subjected it to two sets of burnouts after the races in India and Abu Dhabi.
As a consequence, I'm going to stick my neck out and say this will be Mark Webber's day, with the German retiring through car failure.
Grosjean and Hulkenberg will round off the podium places, with Alonso fifth and Hamilton sixth.
What do you think? Tweet me @danielt_johnson or email me at daniel.johnson@telegraph.co.uk.
18:55 Last season Lewis Hamilton won the first race in Austin from second on the grid - can Mark Webber do the same today?
The start should be tasty with the big rise up to turn one and the wide open apex. Last year Fernando Alonso sensationally climbed to fourth place, I wouldn't bet against him doing the same from sixth, in spite of the fact that since his 28G aerial moment in Abu Dhabi he has been suffering recurring headaches.

18:52 I haven't been able to get a suitable screenshot just yet, but this being America, there are plenty of cheerleaders around which, apparently, is distracting some of the mechanics... (via Red Bull Racing Spy).
<noframe>Twitter: Red Bull Racing Spy - Our uber-professional crew aren&rsquo;t distracted by cheerleaders bouncing around outside. The drooling is just a pre-race meditation technique.</noframe>
18:50 Oh no, it's national anthem time. Sorry to our American viewers, but this is always particularly cringey.
So it would seem to be an opportune moment to show you one of the many celebrities out in force today on the grid.
First Ernie Els, and then chef Gordon Ramsey.

18:46 Sadly both the drivers and constructors championships have long been wrapped up. Sebastian Vettel has a lead of 130 points over Fernando Alonso if you're interested.
But second, third and fourth in the constructors is much more tasty.
Mercedes, Ferrari and Lotus are separated by just over 30 points. With two races to go it might be a tall order for Lotus to come from fourth to second (especially with Kovaleinen parachuted in this and next weekend), but it should be a fine tussle between Mercedes and Ferrari.
Constructors:
1 Red Bull - 513
2 Mercedes - 334
3 Ferrari - 323
4 Lotus - 297
18:40 As I said in my introduction, the grid today is slightly mixed up, apart from the front three places.
Problems with getting the tyres up to temperature seems to be the best explanation. Here's how they line up.
Row 1
1. Sebastian Vettel Germany Red Bull-Renault
2. Mark Webber Australia Red Bull-Renault
Row 2
3. Romain Grosjean France Lotus-Renault
4. Nico Hulkenberg Germany Sauber-Ferrari
Row 3
5. Lewis Hamilton Britain Mercedes-Mercedes
6. Fernando Alonso Spain Ferrari-Ferrari
Row 4
7. Sergio Perez Mexico McLaren-Mercedes
8. Heikki Kovalainen Finland Lotus-Renault
Row 5
9. Valtteri Bottas Finland Williams-Renault
10. Daniel Ricciardo Australia Toro Rosso-Ferrari
Row 6
11. Paul di Resta Britain Force India-Mercedes
12. Nico Rosberg Germany Mercedes-Mercedes
Row 7
13. Felipe Massa Brazil Ferrari-Ferrari
14. Jean-Eric Vergne France Toro Rosso-Ferrari
Row 8
15. Jenson Button Britain McLaren-Mercedes
16. Adrian Sutil Germany Force India-Mercedes
Row 9
17. Pastor Maldonado Venezuela Williams-Renault
18. Giedo van der Garde Holland Caterham-Renault
Row 10
19. Jules Bianchi France Marussia-Cosworth
20. Esteban Gutierrez Mexico Sauber-Ferrari
Row 11
21. Max Chilton Britain Marussia-Cosworth
22. Charles Pic France Caterham-Renault
18:37 How could I have repeatedly mention "shake'n bake" without seeking out a clip of the team radio in question?
Here it is. Rocky and and Vettel are quite the team.

18:35 We love a good driver-team spat in F1. And we've been treated to one that's been bubbling under all season, and which has exploded into the open this weekend.
After a rank performance in qualifying, Pastor Maldonado accused his Williams team of sabotaging his car.
"I think in my car somebody is playing with the pressure and the temperatures", he said. Williams, of course, vigorously denied his accusation.

Seems to me as if Maldonado was just a little more than frustrated at being outclassed by his teammate Bottas in qualifying.
18:31 This being the United States GP, there have been a few nice touches to the drivers' parade among other things.
The tweet from Lotus below should explain what I mean.

First out of the traps; it's @RGrosjean! Looking pretty fly, for a nice guy... #F1 #USGP @circuitamericas pic.twitter.com/nbjlB3kTvF
18:29 Austin by numbers(ish)!
Circuit Name: Circuit of The Americas
First Grand Prix: 2012
Number of Laps: 56
Circuit Length: 5.513 km
Race Distance: 308.405 km
Lap Record: 1:39.347 - S Vettel (2012)
18:25 In Kimi Raikkonen's place this weekend is fellow Finn Heiki Kovaleinen. Lotus's reserve driver has seemed less than impressed as the cameras focus on him this weekend.
The Telegraph's Formula One Correspondent Tom Cary sympathises with his plight.
<noframe>Twitter: Tom Cary - Lotus decision to overlook Valsecchi also damning of current f1 situation with regard to testing etc What's point of reserve drivers??</noframe>
18:23 One of the best bits of the Austin circuit is the opening sector, which mimicks Becketts at Silverstone and the opening sector in Suzuka. You wouldn't think this isn't a natural overtaking spot.
But no overtaking move is beyond the iceman Kimi Raikkonen, who sadly is out for the last two races after having a back operation ahead of his move to Ferrari.
Here is the Finn making a stunning pass on Hulkenberg last year.

18:19 Since the last race in Abu Dhabi there has been no shortage of movement in the driver market, although that's not to say everything is wrapped up.
The most sensational (if not all that surprising news) was that Sergio Perez has been dropped by McLaren after just one year.
It seems like it came down to struggling to beat Jenson Button consistently in qualifying, when the team knows that Jenson does not have the most blistering one lap pace. 21-year-old Kevin Magnussen comes in to replace the Mexican. (As a 22-year-old that certainly doesn't make me feel good).
Williams have also confirmed both of their drivers for next season. Bottas deservedly stays on, and Felippe Massa moves from one legendary team to another. Lets hope Frank Williams's team can have a much better run of results in 2014.
18:11 Away from their pitlane reporter wearing a check shirt, and Johnny Herbert donning a cowboy hat, on Sky F1 they've been trying to explain the Y250 vortex. Or in simpler terms - the airflow under the front wing which Red Bull manipulate so brilliantly.
These Adrian Newey-led features are the kind of things which make Fernando Alonso and co. so desperate to drive their cars.

18:03 If you're not familiar with "shake'n bake" (after Vettel and Rocky used the phrase on team radio after qualifying yesterday), or the brilliant and ridiculous film that is Talladega Nights, watch this clip below while I tuck into my dinner (chicken curry if you're interested).

18:00 Welcome to live coverage of the second grand prix from Austin, Texas - or should I call it the now annual "Shake'n bakeathon!"
For those of you who missed qualifying yesterday, upon taking pole position Sebastian Vettel celebrated along with his engineer Rocky by shouting over the radio: "Shake'n bake!"
If you are not well versed in classic Will Ferrel comedies, "shake'n bake" is the catchphrase of his racing driver character Ricky Bobby in Talladega Nights.

Will Ferrell (right) as Ricky Bobby in Talladega Nights
Regular followed of my F1 live blogs will know I haven't always been Seb's biggest fan, but bizarrely this latest joke turned my liking of him up to 200 degrees celcius (Bake Off fans, is that a good temperature at which to bake cakes?! Because I'm totally clueless when it comes to the matter.)
Anyway, back to F1, and all jokes aside it was another sterling performance by Vettel to snatch pole from teammate Mark Webber yesterday, who looked like he had the front spot wrapped up until running wide on the second last corner.
Given their qualifying performance, maybe the hashtag this afternoon - seen as we are in Austin - should be #nooneisgoingtocatchthebulls.
Their pace all weekend suggests they will be fairly untouchable today, barring one of Mark Webber's poor starts or the pair taking each other off. The best of the rest in qualifying included a strong third for Romain Grosjean, and fourth from the ever-impressive Nico Hulkenberg.
Eight paragraphs in to this introduction and it seems a grave injustice that I'm yet to mention the brilliant Circuit of the Americas track. Yes, all the best bits are pinched from elsewhere (the fast opening section from Silverstone, the long right hander is a slightly easier mirror image of Turkey's turn 8) - but frankly, who cares? It's a brilliant track. The drivers love the high speed sections, and the spectators love the wide apexes at turn one and turn 12 for ample overtaking. Job done as far as track design goes.
The combination of a nice track layout and a slightly mixed up grid - largely because some teams (notably Mercedes with Nico Rosberg) struggled to bring the hard tyre compounds up to temperature - should make for an enthralling race.
Yes, it's difficult to see much changing up front, but the rest of the top 10 appears fairly wide open.
There are also a number of intriguing driver/team stories bubbling under this afternoon.
How will Perez go after being ditched by McLaren after just one year? Will Maldonado once again accuse his Williams team of tampering with his car? (Or just admit he isn't quite as good as he thinks he is?). Only two races for drivers left to impress, including Brit Paul di Resta, so there's a lot on the line.
Given all the above, this one should be a cracker. And if not we might hear some entertaining one liners by Sebastian Vettel over team radio.
Lights out at 1900 UK time. Please tweet me @danielt_johnson or email me at daniel.johnson@telegraph.co.uk with your thoughts on the race, or simply your musings on Will Ferrell's best comedy outings. (Step Brothers remains my personal favourite if you want to know.)
17:43 Join Daniel Johnson from 18:00 for live build up and coverage of the US grand prix in Austin, Texas. Lights out at 19:00.

