http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604236/s/4449c64f/sc/7/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cinternational0C114656920CFootball0EAssociations0Eplan0Eto0Eenter0EGreat0EBritain0Emens0Efootball0Eteam0Ein0ERio0Eappears0Edoomed0Bhtml/story01.htm
Football Association’s plan to enter Great Britain men's football team in Rio appears doomed
By Ben Rumsby
7:12PM GMT 11 Mar 2015
Comments
• FA attempt to resurrect Team GB men's team for Rio Olympics • Our British XI for Rio 2016, in pictures
It won its fight to enter a Great Britain men’s side at the London Olympics, but the Football Association’s plans to resurrect the concept at next year’s Games appeared doomed on Wednesday.
The FA was poised to pay the price for its failure to consult the other home associations — and to do so much earlier than now — less than six weeks after informing them of its intention to enter both men’s and women’s sides in Rio.
The Football Association of Wales and Irish Football Association remain fundamentally opposed to a men’s team playing at the Olympics and will not give their blessing to the concept if consulted on the matter by Fifa.
And Inside Sport had also learnt that the FA is in danger of seeing its plans vetoed by Uefa, which is understood to be on the brink of organising this summer’s Under-21 Championship finals on the basis that England will not attempt to qualify Britain for the Olympics.
Daniel Sturridge celebrates after scoring against Uruguay in 2012 (GETTY IMAGES)
Unless there is an imminent ruling on the controversy by Fifa — and there is no sign of that occurring — European football’s governing body is ready to shut the door on Team GB’s participation in Rio.
Uefa is demanding certainty over the matter now because it directly affects the staging of the Under-21 finals in the Czech Republic in June.
If England enter the tournament with the intention of qualifying Britain for the Olympics, it would mean Uefa cancelling its plans to schedule a potential play-off for a place in Rio.
That fixture is currently timetabled in the event England deny an eligible nation one of the four automatic qualifying spots by reaching the semi-finals. And despite the fact the play-off would not take place anyway if England fail to get out of their group, Uefa wants the matter cleared up as quickly as possible.
The FA was planning to continue talks with the other home associations at Uefa’s annual Congress in just under a fortnight’s time, ahead of a board meeting at which it would decide the fate of the men’s Olympic side.
Manchester United legend Ryan Giggs skippered the 2012 side (GETTY IMAGES)
But that could already be too late.
It is also understood the FA has little appetite to go to war with its other British counterparts over Team GB, and is unlikely to force the issue in defiance of their wishes.
Were it to do so, the FAW, IFA and - the less antagonistic - Scottish Football Association could lobby Fifa to revoke the FA’s status as the entity solely responsible for organising Britain’s Olympic team in tandem with the British Olympic Association.
The historic arrangement differs from that implemented by other sports, for which each of the four national federations come together to form a body to work with the BOA.
A similar arrangement in football would effectively give the SFA, FAW and IFA the power of veto over any British Olympic entry.
A challenge to the FA’s supremacy on this front may occur even if it backs down, with the other associations conscious that the Team GB saga could be resurrected again ahead of the Tokyo Games.
Being part of a new entity would also give them more say on the organisation of a women’s team at next year’s Olympics, a concept they are far less resistant to.
They believe only a men’s side poses a realistic threat to their status as independent nations within Fifa, something not worth risking for what is an under-23 tournament with no mandatory player release.
The women’s competition, on the other hand, is one of the most prestigious in the game.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Night-time drug tests may not be the dream solution
The ease with which dopers are still able to avoid detection was one of the most alarming findings of the Cycling Independent Reform Commission.
Allegations riders are micro-dosing outside the hours they must make themselves available for testing prompted the CIRC to recommend the introduction of “night-time” sample collections in the sport.
The prospect of a midnight feast of EPO and HGH being followed by a knock on the door from the anti-doping authorities might appear a powerful deterrent.
The problem is that there is nothing to compel a cyclist to let the testers in.
Athletes are only penalised for failing to provide a specimen if it can be shown they have deliberately evaded or refused to take a test, or if they have failed to comply with a ‘whereabouts’ programme they may be part of.
But sanctioning someone for not waking up – or pretending not to wake up – for an out-of-hours sample collection is something even those spearheading the fight against drugs in sport believe is a step too far.
The new chief executive of UK Anti-Doping, Nicole Sapstead, said: “I would be very reluctant to see there being consequences from not answering the door at anti-social hours.”
The issue of doping in cycling made the headlines this week (AFP)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sports unite in funding battle
Britain’s London 2012 medal rush left the Government little option but to maintain funding for Olympic sports in the run-up to next year’s Games.
However, there appears enough doubt about whoever is in power after the General Election echoing that commitment that a new body has been formed to lobby MPs on the matter.
The National Governing Body CEO Forum – made up of chief executives of 39 NGBs including the Football Association, Rugby Football Union and England & Wales Cricket Board – unveiled research this week highlighting British sport’s successes beyond merely delivering medals and boosting participation.
The forum warned it would be “a nightmare for this country” if sport fell victim to Government spending cuts expected regardless of who ends up in Downing Street.
