http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/661268/s/42ec8371/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ctennis0Candymurray0C1138310A0A0CAndy0EMurray0Ehas0Eto0Efind0Ereason0Efor0Ehis0Emeltdown0Eagainst0ENovak0EDjokovic0Ein0EAustralian0EOpen0Efinal0Esays0EPat0ECash0Bhtml/story01.htm
Andy Murray has to find reason for his 'meltdown' against Novak Djokovic in Australian Open final, says Pat Cash
By Telegraph Sport
6:48PM GMT 01 Feb 2015
Comments
Pat Cash, the former Wimbledon champion, accused Andy Murray of collapsing in the latter stages of his Australian Open final defeat against Novak Djokovic and believes the Scot needs to learn from his mistakes.
After the first two sets were split in 2hr 32min, Murray looked to be in command against an ailing Djokovic when he broke for a 2-0 lead in the third set. But from then on the Scot, 27, won just one of the next 13 games as a rejuvenated Djokovic raised his game to secure a fifth Australian Open title. Murray admitted that he was distracted by Djokovic’s fluctuating physical condition.
Cash, the 1987 Wimbledon champion, said: “Things just started snowballing for Murray once he lost that concentration when everything was going his way.


Gripping drama has inexplicable ending
Murray loses Australian Open runner-up plate
Watch moment Djokovic beat Murray
Murray capitulation leaves Djokovic as champion
“He hasn’t put up a great fight, he hasn’t. He absolutely collapsed. Sorry but you don’t put a rose tint on this. He melted down, he’s been disappointing and the bottom line is, the situation got too much.”
Speaking during commentary on BBC Radio Five Live, the Australian said of Murray: “He has to look at it and say: ‘I can’t do this again. What has gone wrong, what did I do wrong?’ It’s the same stuff that’s happened his whole career.
Andy Murray v Donald Young in Davis Cup: live
“He needs to find the right ­balance, the right balance between attack and defence.
“He’ll be sat there thinking: ‘What happened? What did I do? I’m a disgrace, I’ve let everyone down.’ But he’ll learn from it.”
Murray has not beaten a world No 1 since defeating Djokovic in the 2013 Wimbledon final and Cash said: “If he wants to beat these guys then he has to start learning from this.
“He’s a seriously good player but if he wants to be a great player then he has to fix this element. He has to have a good hard look in the mirror and he’s needed to have a good hard look in the mirror for a long time. Former coach Ivan Lendl said: ‘Listen son, pull your head together.’
“He’s got to focus and look at why he had the meltdown. If he works on that part of his game then I can see him holding the Wimbledon trophy but he’s got to look in the mirror.
“This is not the worst thing for him to be, I’d almost say embarrassed, and hopefully he’ll learn from it.”
