Andy Murray relishing another epic in the Novak Djokovic v Stan Wawrinka part III at Australian Open
By Simon Briggs, in Melbourne
7:04PM GMT 29 Jan 2015
Comments
It seems to be part of Andy Murray’s celestial contract that every time he reaches a major final, he comes up against either Novak Djokovic or Roger Federer. In eight previous examples – including the 2012 Olympics – this iron law has applied every time.
On this basis, we might forecast victory for Djokovic in tomorrow's second semi-final. But the other guy, reigning Australian Open champion Stan Wawrinka, is no mug either.
“I’ll definitely watch a little bit,” said Murray in his on-court interview. “But judging by their matches here the last couple of years, I might be in bed before they’ve finished. They’ve had a few long ones, both have gone to five sets. But I would say that both of them so far have been playing fantastic tennis. Whoever has got tickets for that one is very lucky.”
“DjokoStan III”, as the locals are calling it, certainly has much to live up to. In 2013, these two battled for 5 hr 2 min before Djokovic finally struck a perfectly angled backhand pass to win the match 12-10 in the deciding set, and then ripped off his shirt like Serbia’s answer to the Incredible Hulk.
That was the match that really announced Wawrinka as a potential force at the very highest level, and he went one better last year with an equally thrilling victory that reached a mere 9-7 in the fifth.
Murray roars into Australian Open final
Watch: Murray v Berdych highlights
Murray's path to the Australian Open final - in 90 seconds
Is this the moment Kim Sears hurls foul mouthed abuse?
When Djokovic botched an easy forehand volley on match point down, he waved goodbye to an extraordinary 25-match winning streak at Melbourne Park dating back to 2010.
There is just something about Wawrinka’s game that seems to upset Djokovic’s slick all-court movement, even though the Swiss has lost 15 of his last 16 matches against the world No 1.
The key factor is the sheer pace and penetration Wawrinka achieves off both wings, striking winners as freely with his sumptuous single-handed backhand as he does off his forehand side.
That fearless hitting was on show again on Wednesday when Wawrinka came up against Kei Nishikori in the quarter-finals.
Nishikori had been the talk of the locker room after swatting the terrier-like David Ferrer away with casual ease in the fourth round.
Yet the tables were soon turned and the Japanese found himself on the end of a similarly one-sided drubbing once Wawrinka had lined up his heavy artillery, accumulating no fewer than 46 winners in his 6-3, 6-4, 7-6 victory.
“He played a great match,” said Djokovic of that quarter-final. “Kei has been playing his best tennis in the last 12 months. To be able to win in straight sets against him is pretty impressive.
“Being the defending champion, obviously Stan has got some of the pressure here. He is facing this kind of role for the first time in his life. He’s been playing some great tennis under the circumstances. You’ve got to give him credit for that.”
Wawrinka has dropped just the one set on his way to the semi-final, against Guillermo Garcia-Lopez in the fourth round, yet Djokovic can go one better with a completely clean record. Amazingly, he has dropped only a single service game in the whole tournament and looks typically bulletproof as we approach the second weekend.
“I think for sure it will be funny to play him again,” said Wawrinka. “I will be happy to play him three straight years in a row.
“We had some crazy matches in grand slams in the past.
“You know when you play Novak, especially in a semi-final in a grand slam, you have to play your best tennis if you want to push him. So far I’m playing great. I’m confident with my game.”

