http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569174/s/25dee19e/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cmanchester0Ecity0C96972460CRoberto0EMancini0Ehas0Esupport0Eof0Eclub0Ebut0Ewill0Enot0Ebe0Egiven0Ecash0Eto0Ebolster0EManchester0ECity0Esquad0Ein0Etransfer0Ewindow0Bhtml/story01.htm
Roberto Mancini has support of club but will not be given cash to bolster Manchester City squad in transfer window
By Mark Ogden
11:00PM GMT 22 Nov 2012
Comments
Manchester City’s attempts to reduce their transfer spending and move towards compliance with Uefa’s Financial Fair Play regulations ensures that there will be no major arrivals in the new year.
And plans are already being made for next summer’s transfer window to follow a similarly prudent path, with senior figures ruling out moves for Roma’s Daniele de Rossi and Atletico Madrid forward Radamel Falcao, despite Mancini admiring both.
Mancini is understood to accept the need for City to move towards a more sustainable approach. But while confirmation of the club’s Champions League exit following Wednesday’s draw with Real Madrid was a major disappointment for Mancini and his bosses, the 47 year-old’s insistence that he does not fear for his job is well placed.
Although Chelsea manager Roberto Di Matteo was sacked by the club’s owner, Roman Abramovich, on Wednesday following the European champions’ 3-0 defeat against Juventus in Turin the previous evening, there are no moves within the Etihad Stadium for Mancini’s position to be reviewed.
City lead the Premier League with the only unbeaten record in the division, and Mancini signed a new five-year contract following City’s title success last season, so owner Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed al Nahyan and his senior executives at the club remain determined to keep faith with the former Inter Milan coach.
Benítez's rhino skin will be at full stretch
Chelsea v Manchester City: preview
Mourinho: I'd be sacked if we crashed out
FA Clattenburg statement in full
Clattenburg: I hope no other referee has to go through this
Play Rafa Benitez Bingo!
While Mancini has failed to meet Abu Dhabi’s – and his own – minimum target of progression to the last 16 of the Champions League, City’s recent return to the summit of the Premier League has softened the blow of their European failings.
And although the barbed comments of Real Madrid coach Jose Mourinho following the draw at the Etihad which ended City’s Champions League ambitions, claiming he would not survive such a failure at the Bernabeu, placed the spotlight on Mancini’s latest disappointment in the competition, the Portuguese’s remarks have done nothing to undermine Mancini’s position.
But despite Mancini’s complaints during the summer relating to the club’s laboured player recruitment, when he insisted that the squad which won the title was not strong enough to win the Champions League, he was ultimately handed the majority of the players he had identified at the end of last season as transfer targets.
While Mancini was frustrated by City’s failure to sign Robin van Persie, who instead chose to leave Arsenal for Manchester United, the Italian ended the club’s pursuit of Eden Hazard because his insistence that the Belgian was overpriced prior to his subsequent move to Chelsea.
Roma captain De Rossi, whose age (29) and salary demands do not fit City’s recruitment, was another target, with Mancini identifying Benfica’s Javi Garcia – a deadline day signing – as the alternative option.
Jack Rodwell and Scott Sinclair, both of whom have made little impact since arriving from Everton and Swansea respectively, were also players named on Mancini’s wanted list.
The potential sale of the out-of-favour Mario Balotelli in January could release funds for an entry into the transfer market, particularly with Yaya Toure expected to be away for more than a month with Ivory Coast at the Africa Cup of Nations.
David Platt, City’s assistant manager, who was sent off for dissent on Wednesday night, will have his case dealt with by Uefa next Tuesday.
City captain Vincent Kompany is a doubt for Sunday’s trip to Chelsea with a knee injury sustained during the draw against Real Madrid.
The Belgian defender left the Etihad Stadium on crutches after Real forward Karim Benzema landed on his right knee in the closing stages.
