http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569174/s/2586975f/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cengland0C96737990CSweden0Ev0EEngland0Emeet0ECrystal0EPalace0Estriker0EWilfried0EZaha0Ewho0Eis0Etough0Eas0EMaradona0Eand0Eskilful0Eas0EGeorge0EBest0Bhtml/story01.htm
Sweden v England: meet Crystal Palace striker Wilfried Zaha who is tough as Maradona and skilful as George Best
By Jeremy Wilson
6:00AM GMT 13 Nov 2012
Comments
“He was direct, skilful and committing people – he looks the real deal,” said Leon Osman.
Daniel Sturridge, who works daily at Chelsea with the likes of Eden Hazard and Juan Mata, added: “He was fantastic – I was amazed at how good he was.”
That Zaha should be unfazed in the company of some of his England heroes will come as little surprise to anyone who has ever played alongside him.
Shaun Derry was Palace’s captain when Zaha made his senior debut as a precocious 17 year-old and can still vividly recall one of their first encounters at the club’s Beckenham training base.
“Paul Hart was the manager and would get the youngsters involved,” said Derry. “They would watch what was happening, taking in the shape, the development of the team and what would happen on a Saturday.
Osman is ready to have a ball
Sturridge savouring chance
Top clubs chase Derby's Hughes
Ince: U21 were all scared in Serbia
Gerrard’s ability was always obvious
Why United wanted Zaha so badly
“But, rather than watching the game, Wilfried was doing his own thing on the sidelines, keeping the ball up with these unbelievable skills. I can remember it quite clearly because I started watching him. He was doing all the tricks and pirouettes – basically all the skills you see on Soccer AM on a Saturday morning. The difference is that he can also now do it on a Saturday afternoon.
“He did not have a care in the world. Wilfried is a unique type of person, a unique type of player. He doesn’t conform to any rules or regulations. He did understand he was there to learn but it was like, ‘I’ll do it my way’. It’s been fantastic and, as time has gone on, he has done it the Wilfried Zaha way.”
Zaha’s breakthrough season at Palace was to follow in 2010-11 under George Burley, a manager with an outstanding track record for developing young players and giving them first-team opportunities. His past alumni include Gareth Bale and Theo Walcott but, in analysing Zaha, Burley draws the mouthwatering comparison with the style of Lionel Messi, Diego Maradona and George Best.
“Straight away, I was looking at Wilfried and thinking, ‘There’s something special about this lad’,” said Burley. “He had that flair for running with the ball and taking players on. He has great balance. He was the type of lad who, if people tackled him, he didn’t fall over. They just seemed to bounce off him and then he had that amazing ability to go again. That’s what stuck out.
“Maradona had the strength as well. Messi and Wilfried are smaller in frame but it doesn’t mean you are not strong and tough to take challenges.”
Zaha – full name Dazet Wilfried Armel Zaha – came to England from the Ivory Coast with his eight siblings as a four year-old. He was to settle in south London and literally learn his football on the streets, an upbringing that, according to Burley, has provided the soundest technical foundation.
“You can’t tell Wilfried how to beat a player because it is all natural,” said Burley. “It’s all sixth sense; coordination with a ball and quick feet from when he was out playing on the streets with 20 kids around him. He has not been manufactured.
“It’s great to see and you don’t see much of it now. Society has changed and that hasn’t helped the development of players, especially in Britain. Wilfried was brought up in an area where they are out on the streets and out in the parks playing football for hours. That has certainly developed the boy’s skill. It was similar with Georgie Best.”
Remaining at Palace at a level where he has regular first-team football has, says Burley, also been critical to Zaha’s development. He turned 20 on Saturday and has already played 110 senior matches. The major clubs are inevitably now circling, with Arsenal regularly scouting Zaha and likely to offer around £15 million in January.
Palace, though, are acutely aware that Zaha could be the difference this season in a promotion push to the Premier League that would be worth £100 million.
The new manager, Ian Holloway, has certainly already made his feelings known. “Have I seen anyone like him?” he said. “No. Not in my whole career. Not close up.
“I’m giggling at some of it. When I was growing up, you had the [Harlem] Globetrotters. Well, he can do all of those things with a ball at his feet.
“He’s almost mesmeric, he’s almost a genius. He’s at a place where he is loved and he is treasured. Yes, people will covet him but Wilfried is a very lucky man. Life couldn’t be better. He’s an absolute joy to watch and a credit to Crystal Palace.”
Six who jumped from second tier to international stage
JAY BOTHROYD (Cardiff) 1 cap Rewarded for goal-laden season in the Championship with 18-minute run-out against France, but failed to cut it in the Premier League with QPR.
STEVE BULL (Wolves) 13 caps, 4 goals Prolific at club level in all three divisions outside of the top flight. Earned call-up for Bobby Robson’s Italia 90 squad but chances limited were limited by Gary Lineker.
MICHAEL GRAY (Sunderland) 3 caps Key figure in Sunderland’s promotion to the Premier League in 1999 and briefly caught the eye of Kevin Keegan at left-back.
DAVID NUGENT (Preston NE) 1 cap, 1 goal Scored a tap-in on debut against Andorra, but career nosedived and failed in the Premier League.
DAVID HIRST (Sheff Wed) 3 caps, 1 goal Once rivalled Alan Shearer in the race to lead the England line, but injuries saw career tail off at club and international level.
GARY PALLISTER (Middlesbrough) 22 caps Went on to become a regular following a move to Manchester United.
