http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570754/s/44935f07/sc/8/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cnews0Cuknews0Ccrime0C114810A660CPolo0Eplayer0Echoked0Eon0Esock0Eafter0Edrug0Esession0Bhtml/story01.htm
Polo player choked on sock after drug session
By Nicola Harley
7:25PM GMT 18 Mar 2015
A doctor who supplied the president of a polo club with drugs leading him to choke to death on a sock has been jailed for six months.
James Steen, 23, who was studying at Newcastle University, was given a cocktail of drugs by Dr James Morgan, 29, following a night out in Rugby.

Mr Steen, who was taking a degree in media, communications and cultural studies and was the president of the university’s polo club, returned to Dr Morgan's home with three others where he gave him Class B drug Mephedrone and class C drug gamma-hydroxybutrate (GHB) on July 5 last year.
When they woke they found trained huntsman Mr Steen, who had a fetish for sniffing socks, dead after suffocating when he got one lodged in his throat.
The drugs he had taken contributed to his death, Warwick Crown Court heard.
Morgan, who was diagnosed with HIV in 2012, was jailed for six months after he admitted supplying drugs.

Judge Sylvia de Bertodano told him: "Although he died of respiratory failure as a result of a blockage of his airway, the Class C drug supplied was a direct contributor to that.
"It's tragic cases like this which reinforce the message courts send out when they sentence for the supply of drugs, that drugs of whatever class ruin lives.
"You, better than anyone, should know that. You are not only a doctor, you are an outstanding one. So as well as taking James's life, you have ruined your own life.
"Your career, which you worked so hard to build, is in jeopardy.

"James Steen was a young man on the very threshold of life. He had everything to live for. Nothing you can do, and I can do today can reconcile his family to their loss.
"As a doctor, even in a social context, you were in a position of authority. He had taken a great deal more of the class C drug than any of the other three of you.
"Allowing that to happen was a terrible dereliction of your duty.
"The message has to go out that if someone, in particular a doctor, supplies a non-drug-user with illegal drugs and they die as a result, they must go to prison."
Morgan, of Rugby, worked as registrar at Coventry's University Hospital and met Mr Steen through his partner Simon Chapman and his friend John Deptford.
Mr Deptford, who played for Northampton Outlaws Rugby Club, befriended Mr Steen online and stayed with him when he visited Newcastle.
Mr Steen, from Poyntzpass, near Newry in Northern Ireland, who was a keen skier, had travelled down to Rugby for a meal with Mr Deptford, Mr Chapman and Morgan the night before his death.
The four men went to the Steam Turbine pub in the town and had a meal before moving on to another pub.
Prosecutor Lal Amarasinghe told the court they all went back to Morgan's Victorian terraced home in the town where he got a bottle of 'poppers' which was passed round to sniff.
He said: "Mr Deptford, who had been quite drunk, could not recall anything else until waking up and realising he and the other three were all naked and Mr Steen was lying on the floor.
"Realising something was wrong, he pinched him to try to get a reaction, but without any response, and immediately called to Morgan who examined the student.
"An ambulance was called, and as they waited they tried to resuscitate Mr Steen but realised his airway was blocked.
"Mr Deptford, who knew Mr Steen had a fetish for sniffing socks and putting them in his mouth, found he had a sock blocking his throat, and pulled it out.
"Paramedics then arrived, but Mr Steen was already beyond help."

Morgan was arrested in the street nearby on suspicion of murder along with the other two men were also arrested.
The charges against Mr Deptford and Mr Chapman were later dropped and reduced to supplying drugs for Morgan.
Police found traces of Mephedrone, a synthetic stimulant, on a chopping board and a bottle which had contained GBL, which can be an anaesthetic and hypnotic agent.
In large amounts it can cause respiratory failure.
Mr Amarasinghe told the court the "relatively high level of GHB" found in Mr Steen's system would have contributed to him suffocating.
Morgan told police he had brought down some 'poppers' for everyone and some GBL, which converts to GHB in the system, for himself and passed out after taking some.
Christopher Millington QC, defending, said: "What the deceased had done was put a sock in his mouth which, according to Mr Deptford, he had partially swallowed. Nobody knew it was there until after his death.
"The role the drug played is that it increased the risk of asphyxiation. It was not the direct cause of death."
He said there was a "stand-out reference" from Dr Belinda Stanley, a member of the GMC's disciplinary tribunal, who described Morgan as "among the best she has ever worked with."

Mr Millington added: "The sad fact is that having devoted so many years of his life to becoming a doctor, he has put his career in jeopardy because of the irresponsibility he displayed during that social gathering.
"That is something he will have to live with, together with the guilt and feeling of responsibility over the death of the deceased."
Mr Steen's half-brother, Rev Ivan Steen, was the minister at Windsor Presbyterian Church in south Belfast.
Speaking at the time of his death, his family said: "James enriched our lives, and the lives of others, in so many ways.
"He was a kind, caring, intelligent and very talented young man, with a generous spirit. He touched everyone he met with his positivity and his sense of humour.
"We are devastated by James' untimely death, but we are comforted by knowing how much he was loved and admired by his family, friends and university colleagues.
"We are immensely proud of our son, and all he achieved and the significant mark he made during his brief time on this earth."
