http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570754/s/43003f4e/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Cpolo0C1138790A40CWomens0Esport0Eis0Eon0Ethe0Erise0Ebut0Epolo0Echiefs0Estill0Etreat0Eladies0Egame0Ewith0Elack0Eof0Erespect0Bhtml/story01.htm
Women's sport is on the rise but UK polo chiefs still treat ladies' game with lack of respect
By Sarah Wiseman, professional women's polo player
5:45PM GMT 03 Feb 2015
Comments
- HPA under pressure to recognise women's polo - FOLLOW THE TELEGRAPH'S POLO CHANNEL
I have had the incredible opportunity to make a living this winter out of playing women’s polo around the world for the first time.
If you had asked five years ago if this would be possible, I would have laughed. It just shows the growth and development of the ladies' game internationally.
International ladies tournaments are well supported, well sponsored and draw in large audiences. Clubs in Dubai, Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore and the USA make their ladies tournaments a big deal and put on a great event that forms one of the highlights of their season.
With more ladies taking up the sport every year, women’s polo has become its own, and very successful industry. Just speak to Sunny Hale, the former 5 goal player, and winner of the US Open.
There are struggles but I love it, says Meyrick
UK polo pressured to lift women's game
Polo season 2014 in review
'Ponies will teach you more'
Sunny founded the WCT, a women’s polo league that supports and promotes tournaments around the globe, firstly because she wants to promote women in the sport, but also because of the massive market potential.
In this time when there is so much growth in the women’s side of the game, why are we not doing more in the UK to promote the women’s side of the sport? It really is down to individuals, and clubs, and it seems the Hurlingham Polo Association are not that interested.
In the pony club I always looked up to great lady players like Nina Clarkin, who was only a few years older than me, but she was an inspiration. I heard news from the USA about this amazing lady player Sunny Hale, who was playing with Cambiaso and just won the US Open.
It made me want to be better and to make strides in the mixed game just as much as in Ladies polo, which back then, was not that high a level.
We need to inspire young lady players to continue playing and to follow their dreams of being a international player, and a professional. It is all possible, I can vouch for it.
Top flight: Sarah Wiseman, foreground, at the British Ladies Open (ALICE GIPPS)
I had the privilege to win the Audi Most Outstanding Lady Player award in 2013. After I won, they removed this award from the ceremony.
Having been nominated every year previously, it was a nod of recognition from the industry that as a lady player I was being credited for my hard work.
Now it seems there is no recognition for our efforts in this country.
They have stopped the England Ladies v Young England match at the Beaufort International as well.
We had a great trip to the USA to play an International alongside the boys in 2012. It was a very proud moment for me to represent my country, and I would love the opportunity to be able to this more.
I know funding is a major issue, but surely there is something that can be done to help women in the sport, and to establish a series of Internationals against the USA and Argentina?
I believe it would be much easier to get sponsors and endorsements if the governing body are 100 per cent in support of women in the sport and the development of the game.
If Audi are not interested in sponsoring a Ladies' International team, then why can’t the HPA source a brand that wants to help the growth ofthe ladies game?
Women’s sports are huge right now: England women's football at Wembley and televised, Fifa's goal of the year featuring a lady in the top three, England women's cicket making great strides, and England women just won the rugby World Cup in France beating Canada.
Surely there must be a sponsor that would love to be a part of changing the view of Women in polo, a clearly male-dominated sport.
Maybe with the introduction of Women’s handicaps this year, a committee can be set up to aid the future of the Women’s sport, as this is clearly a big step forward in the sports future.
I love the mixed game, but I am excited about the future of Women’s Polo. The level around the world is improving every year and with tournaments being held at a 6 goal (mixed handicap) level, it goes to show that there are a lot of talented ladies out there.
With a little more support, imagine what the young ladies playing now, can achieve in a few years?
Have your say below..
We are looking for polo clubs to be featured in the Telegraph during 2015. Email and
