http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/640203/s/449b7147/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cpicturegalleries0C114846510CThe0E20A0Ebiggest0Erivalries0Ein0Eworld0Efootball0Eranked0Bhtml/story01.htm
The 20 biggest rivalries in world football ranked
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/640203/s/4491bfb6/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cplayers0Cgareth0Ebale0C114821560CGareth0EBale0Eneeds0ECristiano0ERonaldo0Eto0Eleave0EReal0EMadrid0Bhtml/story01.htm
Gareth Bale needs Cristiano Ronaldo to leave Real Madrid
By Jason Burt
12:00PM GMT 19 Mar 2015
Comments
A few days ago Gareth Bale wanted to play a round of golf with some friends who were over from Wales.
Golf is Bale’s passion after football. He liked the look of a course close to Barcelona. So he got out his clubs, looked up the train times from Madrid and told his mates they would all take a taxi to the course from the railway station in Barcelona.
Except it was then pointed out to Bale, that, perhaps, it would not be the easiest and shrewdest of things for a Real Madrid galactico to go wandering around Barcelona-Sants station trying to hail a cab.
Maybe Bale should be thinking about a private plane or a helicopter as other sportsmen of his stature would have to use?
“How much will it cost?” Bale said.
His comment was not to do with being tight with his money – just simply because he thought it was over-the-top to do such a thing just because he fancied a round of golf.
Eventually Bale relented and he and his friends went off for a day out that was not picked up by the Spanish media. But imagine the furore had he turned up at Barcelona station?
The story is illuminating in that it shows not just how comfortable Bale is with his life in Spain but how he does not particularly regard himself as what he is: one of the biggest superstars in world football.
The Ego has landed: Gareth Bale does not share Cristiano Ronaldo's attitude
Then again, Bale is not viewed as such in this country which is, when you think about it, a bit strange. Here is the first footballer from these shores for a long time who could credibly be regarded as being among the top three or four players in the world and with the potential of becoming the very best.
And with the exits of Chelsea, Arsenal and Manchester City there is just one Briton left in the Champions League this season: Bale. There is just one Briton who won – and scored in - the Champions League final last season: Bale. There is a Briton who holds the world-record transfer fee: Bale.
There is only one Briton who will be on the pitch for the biggest game in domestic club football, El Clasico, this Sunday, along with Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo: Bale.
There is one Briton who features in Uefa’s anti-racism campaign played on the big screens before every Champions League match. The film includes Messi, Ronaldo, Neymar, Karim Benzema, Franck Ribery, Arjen Robben, Manuel Neuer - and Bale.

This is not about slavishly cheerleading a British footballer abroad but about recognising - at a time when the quality of the Premier League is being questioned - that here is a talented individual who is a star in the global game.
Bale is the best possible advert for British football, but we do not seem to have recognised that. Instead the concentration is on whether he can cut it at Madrid or whether he will have to cut and run.
If there was a sniff that he wanted to leave Real Madrid then the top five clubs in the world who could sign him would offer an astronomical contract: Manchester United, Manchester City, Chelsea, Bayern Munich and Paris Saint-Germain.
They all retain an interest. United tried to gazump Real Madrid’s deal two summers ago. The fee they offered? Not the £100million previously thought of but up to £125million.
Part of the problem for Bale is that he plays at the same time as Messi – who re-affirmed so brilliantly against City on Wednesday evening that he could well be the greatest player of all-time – and in the same team as Ronaldo who is challenging the Argentinean.
The fact is that Bale will probably not fulfil his potential until either he or Ronaldo leave Real Madrid. And he does not want to leave.

Right now it is more likely that Ronaldo will go. The Real president Florentino Perez has invested so much in Bale and could not contain his delight at the Welshman’s two goals against Levante last weekend, his first in nine games with the pressure and criticism growing. Perez duly made it clear that there was no way the player was going anywhere.
Ronaldo’s reaction to one of those goals – the frustration he showed that his attempted bicycle kick had not gone in being far greater than his celebration of Bale volleying the loose ball into the net – was revealing. His actions say it all.
So part of the problem for Bale is his relationship with Ronaldo - not because it is bad but because there really is not much of a relationship. The pair are friendly but not friends. There is no chemistry between them and there never would be from the moment Bale signed for Real Madrid and the club refused to disclose it was for a world-record fee – for fear of upsetting Ronaldo whose £80million signing from United it had eclipsed.
Healthy rivalry: Cristiano Ronaldo greets Gareth Bale on his first day at Real Madrid
Ronaldo also earned a new contract, much to United’s frustration, as it left them feeling they had been used for just that purpose. If Ronaldo wants to return to United this summer then it appears he will have to make more of the running than his former club.
Bale appears to have detached himself from the circus around Ronaldo and concentrated on his own development. Last season ended triumphantly for Bale with 22 goals in 44 matches including that exhilarating run and finish against Barcelona in the Copa del Rey and the vital goal in extra-time that won the Champions League Final against Atletico Madrid.
This season has undoubtedly been more of a struggle but only of late and only through the prism of a team that has also faltered and is geared towards servicing Ronaldo. It also can be no coincidence that Bale’s return to goal-scoring coincided with Luka Modric, his former Tottenham Hotspur team-mate and a player who knows how to provide for him, recovering from being out for three months injured.
Sometimes it is forgotten that even the best players in the world can only thrive in a team sport like football if they receive the right service from their team-mates.
Ear we go: Gareth Bale makes his point to Real fans after scoring against Levante
Bale is low-maintenance – as the episode with the round of golf showed – and is enjoying life in Madrid. His family has settled also and he has worked a way of ensuring he can keep a life back in Wales along with one in Spain.
But he has challenges. Challenges at his club and challenges at gaining the recognition he deserves. But we possess in a footballing superstar who is British – a 'crack', to use that Spanish term that was raised by City manager Manuel Pellegrini during the week – and one who could become the first player from these shores to win the Ballon d’Or since it integrated with the Fifa World Player of the Year.
Michael Owen was the last British Ballon d’Or winner back in 2001 but who was the last player to have the ability to excite that Bale possesses?
Bale will be 26 in July and is yet to reach his prime. Messi is 28 in June while Ronaldo is already 30. There is an incredible opportunity for Bale in the next two or three years if he can take it - which is what he wants.
And if he does then it is something we should all relish once we recognise what an outstanding player he already is.
