http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/640203/s/4382b3ab/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cfootball0Elive0Eblogs0C114196830CSchalke0Ev0EReal0EMadrid0EChampions0ELeague0Elive0Ewith0ECristiano0ERonaldo0Eand0EGareth0EBale0Eset0Eto0Estart0Bhtml/story01.htm
Schalke v Real Madrid, Champions League: as it happened
By Alan Tyers
10:37PM GMT 18 Feb 2015
- La Liga clubs threaten to go on strike for better TV money - Chelsea fans stop black man getting on Paris tube - Real have nothing to celebrate after Atletico humbling - Ronaldo suffers miserable return as Real are thrashed - TV Review of Sky show Ronaldo: Making Of A Genius

FULL TIME: SCHALKE 0 REAL MADRID 2
22.00 Ancelotti denies that it was relief that made him run onto the pitch to celebrate with Marcello. "It was just surpise that he had scored with his right foot!" says the coach. He laughs off any suggestion that winning a tenth European Cup would lessen the pressure. "the pressure is always the same," he said.
21.55 Elsewhere, Basel have drawn with Porto 1-1 in Switzerland.
<noframe>Twitter: Miguel Delaney - Lampard and Henry genuinely talking about the Real Madrid dressing room there as if it's a secondary (or "high") school hierarchy.</noframe>
21.53 Interesting studio quotes on Bale's lack of confidence and the theory that Bale is worried about upsetting Ronaldo.
Hoddle on Bale's lack of confidence: "Bale is playing like he has to please someone on the pitch." Glenn is talking about Ronaldo.
Frank: "Bale is a very nice boy. Maybe he feels he has to pass. Sometimes you have that as a very young player - but he should have ego, he has acheived a lot in the game. This is a phase he is going through."
<noframe>Twitter: Archie Rhind-Tutt - Bad news for Schalke on Klaas-Jan Huntelaar - suspected broken leg (fibula) according to Sky Sport News in Germany</noframe>
90 mins: Boateng tries a ball into the area but its well overhit. Schalke fans are leaving.. And now everyone is leaving. That's full time.
88 mins: Schalke are not having a go, maybe they're just hoping to somehow pinch two goals in Spain, which feels most unlikely but I guess is probably the percentage option versus the risk of going three behind.
85 mins: And now Isco is off for Illarramendi. Feels like this game, and indeed tie, are wrapping up.
84 mins: Arbeloa's on for Carvajal.
83 mins: Madrid are starting to look more like themselves, stroking it around crisply and making darting runs.
GOAL! What a goal. Lovely run from Ronaldo down the left, he nips in between two defenders and slips it inside to Marcello who unleashes an absolute pearler with his weaker right foot. Into the top corner. Ancelotti onto the pitch to celebrate! SCHALKE 0 REAL MADRID 2 (Marcello 79)
76 mins: Benzema nearly clear, but offside. And that will be his last action. The Little Pea is coming on to replace him.
73 mins: But out of the blue, what a shot! Young Platte absolutely lets fly from outside the area, and the crossbar must still be rattling a minute later. Wow. He's been excellent since coming on, Platte, and he nearly has a moment to treasure. Honourable mention to Uchida for a good knockdown, and a follow up shot that is blocked by a desperate Marcello.
71 mins: Excellent play from Bale to hold off a defender and slip it cleverly to Isco, who hits a hard shot only a foot or two over.
68 mins: Boateng has an effort from miles out.
66 mins: Rare bright spot for Schalke as Hoger bursts through. Marcello positively leaps out of the way in a bid not to give away a penalty. He looked like Cumberbatch photobombing at the Oscars.
64 mins: Carvajal gets a nasty case of foot knack in a hard but fair tackle.
62 mins: Madrid break. Bale dithers, looks a bit low on confidence. Eventually slips it to Ronaldo but misplaces the simple pass badly. Ronaldo applauds. Sarcastically?
60 mins: Schalke's best move for a bit, Kirchhoff involved, as is Platte. They cannot get a ball in.
58 mins: Roman Neustadter goes off. Jan Kirchhoff on.
54 mins: Terribly one-sided at the moment. The Madrid front three taking turns to deliver balls in, surely only a matter of time before one of them gets it right.
52 mins: Isco with a cool no-look pass to set Ronaldo clear, the star man crosses but it's blocked. Good confident claim from Timon Wellenreuther.
I learn from the commentary that his dad, Ingo, is the chairman of Karlsruher SC and also a German politican. He is also ALARMINGLY handsome. And 55 years old!

49 mins: I'm not Welsh or anything but I think it's really cool that a small place like Wales has a star player for Real Madrid. Go Wales! Go Gareth! He has made a busy start to the second period.
47 mins: Neat one-two and Benzema is ascloseasthis to getting free in the area after a one-two with Ronaldo. Matip snuffs it out.
46 mins: The Men In Pink kick off.
<noframe>Twitter: Daniel Storey - Roberto Di Matteo has done a fine job in the Bundesliga, but Schalke feel like competition winners so far. Real dominant without being good.</noframe>
20.44 Any way back for Schalke? Can't see it myself, but what do I know.
20.37 There was a show on Sky a few weeks back about CR7. Here's my TV Review of Sky Sports' show
HT: SCHALKE 0 REAL MADRID 1 Well, only one team in it, and it's not the hosts. They tried and failed to play the offside trap and were punished by Ronaldo with a firm header. Made the same error a few moments later and it took a fine stop from their 19-year-old keeper to stop Benzema making it too. Ronaldo looks rejuvenated by his goal and Di Matteo has it all to do in the half time team talk.
<noframe>Twitter: Gary Lineker - Good heavens! Ronaldo killed Lucy Beale.</noframe>
45 mins: Benzema tries an effort from distance. Couple of minutes added, Neustadter into the book for tugging back Benzema. Ronaldo, who absolutely has the bit between his teeth now, has a freekick from 35 yards. That's the half.
44 mins: Corner cleared.
43 mins: Looking more and more like this could be over tonight, as a tie. Real Madrid all over Schakle, Benzema, Bale and Ronaldo all making dangerous runs. Here's Ronaldo down the right, crosses hard and low and Matip has to hack it behind.
40 mins: Good work from Bale now but the ref fails to give Madrid a corner when the last touch looked to have come off a Schalke player.
38 mins: Long diagonal ball from, I think, Kroos and Ronaldo's onto it down the right! He skips past Wellenreuther, who was taking a major peanlty risk there with a wild slide, but luckily for the German hosts, C Ron's momentum has taken him too wide. Cannot keep it in.
37 mins: Few tackles going in. Neither side able to get much going.
34 mins: Dirty, harsh tackle from Boateng on Ronaldo. Outside the box. Ideal freekick territory. And it's a good one from Ronaldo! Well saved by the keeper, dives across and pulls off an acrobatic effort.
32 mins: Huntelaar and Varane go for a 50-50. Huntelaar hurts his shin. In fact, he hurts it badly enough that he has to be subbed off. He walked off, I should add. Young Felix Platte replaces him.
30 mins: Schalke have ballsed up the offside trap again! This time it is the right back Uchida who is not on the same page as his fellows. Benzama bursts clear, and it takes a really good save to deny him.
29 mins: Ball crossed from the right - Ronaldo with the bicycle kick! Misses it.
28 mins: The game resumes its pattern of not a lot happening, with some pushing.
GOAL! It's the hopeless Ronaldo, I told you they should sell that loser. Don't write in. It's a good cross from Carvajal, and a TERRIBLE bit of defending from Scahlke back Matip, who is standing two yards behind the line of his team-mates. That means the offisde trap is completely busted, and who should run through to tuck away a gimme of a header but good old The Winker himself. That's an absolute gift, andit's SCHALKE 0 REAL MADRID 1 (Ronaldo 26)
23 mins: Huntelaar! Makes a bit space, hits it low from long-distance. Casillas saves easily enough, as well he ought to have.
22 mins: Now C-Ronaldo has had a dibble from distance and nearly harmed a corner flag.
20 mins: A Ronaldo run ends with a tumble and a huge jeer from the home fans, which is of course exactly as it should be.
19 mins: I guess we're calling that the first effort on target. Aogo, who seems to regard his right foot as just that thing you stand on, takes a sliced left foot effort from the edge of the box after a decent move. Had he a right foot he would have had a better angle. Miles over.
<noframe>Twitter: Alexi Lalas - The &ldquo;o&rdquo; is silent in Midwestern dialect. MT <a href="http://www.twitter.com/DaGreatDecision" target="_blank">@DaGreatDecision</a> Did Alexi Lalas just call Ronaldo "Christian&rdquo;?</noframe>
15 mins: Dunno if it is a tactic, or they are just in bad form, or they are angry about their pink kit, but Madrid have so far done nothing but barge and shove Schalke players.
13 mins: Hoger receives the ball on the edge of the Madrid box, miscontrols. So it is a needless foul from Lucas Silva. Aogo hits it at the wall, and there is a false, rejected shout for handball on Pepe.
12 mins: Ronaldo getting involed, down the right, linking up with Carvajal. Poor ball though.
9 mins: Freekick is a non event though.
8 mins: First yellow, and it's for a man in pink, as Kroos shoulder barges his international colleague Howedes. Kroos complains. Ronaldo complains. Looked a solid yellow. Kroos made no effort to get the ball.
6 mins: Great stadium though.

5 mins: Pretty quiet start, all things considered.
3 mins: And here are the visitors. In pink. Brazillian Lucas Silva makes his first start, he had a sub appearance v Deportivo at the wekeend. Another long ball, this time for Benzema, but he is caught offside. German side's goalie looks about 13.

2 mins: Marcello hits it forward looking for Bale, but too much on it.
1 mins: Schalke, in blue, kick off. But soon it's out for a throw.
19.45 We are a bit behind schedule for some reason. Anyway, here is how the hosts will line up.

19.44 Looks an absolutely wicked stadium. I'd love to go there.
19.40 Schalke and Madrid players line up in the greatest tunnel in football, designed in tribute to the coal-mining heartland in the region.

19.36 Obviously all of England is right behind Martin Atkinson tonight.
19.35 Teams, redux
Schalke 04: Wellenreuther, Uchida, Howedes, Matip, Nastasic, Aogo, Hoger, Neustadter, Boateng, Choupo-Moting, Huntelaar. Subs: Wetklo, Kirchhoff, Meyer, Fuchs, Ayhan, Barnetta, Platte.
Real Madrid: Casillas, Carvajal, Varane, Pepe, Marcelo, Lucas Silva, Kroos, Isco, Bale, Benzema, Ronaldo. Subs: Navas, Hernandez, Arbeloa, Nacho, Jese, Illarramendi, Medran.
Referee: Martin Atkinson (England)
19.25 Frank on Di Matteo. "When he took over at Chelsea, he came and spoke to all the players individually and explained what he wanted to do and how he wanted to do it." I was impressed with him, as were all the players; I spoke to Didier about it. He adds.
19.21 An email arrives from John Mc Enerney
Evening Alan, on present form Barcelona look likely finalists along with Bayern a month ago I'd have said Bayern v Real final but now Real look flat, they burst out the starting blocks & looked great up until Xmas no better man than The Eyebrow to get them back in the groove. CR7 is knackered & little things aren't going to plan but he's a top player & goal machine he'll sort it out.
No way should he be sold, that's pure mental thinking he should be sold just because he's hit a mini drought. Barca fans are just as demanding as Real fans trust me Alan I live in Barcelona and know only too well how demanding & fickle both sets of fans are!
19.18 "I don't like this stuff that is being said about Bale not passing. I know him from a distance and he seems like a good lad. Not the type to be [making a big deal of himself or words to that effect]."
If he hasn't passed to Ronaldo then that would have been for a good football reason on the pitch at the time, Frank says. "And I would like to see Cristiano come out and say so. He is the main man there." And so Ronaldo should put it to bed, Frank says. Eminently sensible.
I am liking Pundit Frank. Reasonable, clear and resisting the temptation to serve up reheated platitudes.
19.16 Teams.
Schalke: Wellenreuther, Howedes, Boateng, Hoger, Choupo-Moting, Aogo, Uchida, Matip, Nastasic, Neustadter, Huntelaar
19.15 "He's not in his normal state. His normal state is not normal" - Thierry Henry on Ronaldo. Love that.
19.12 What a monster.
19.10 Madrid fans booed Carlo Ancelotti and IKER CASILLAS at the weekend when their names were read out. Seriously. Oh, and there was also bad feeling that Ronaldo celebrated his 30th birthday after the Atletico defeat.

19.09 Albeit that Schalke will be using their THIRD choice goalie.
19.07 There's Alan Smith, not only a colleague, but a fellow Alan. And that counts for a great deal. "Schalke is a nice place to play football," he says, pitchside. Certainly an excellent atmosphere is bubbling.
19.05 "You cannot dismiss a result like the 4-0 against Atletico," says Lampard. Can Real Madrid get back to their best form? What has gone wrong? What do they need to do?
19.02 Frank Lampard in the studio. Am trying to think back to times I have seen Frank do punditry. Nice start, when he admits that "human nature" means that you inevitably have a small dip in motivation after winning the Champions League - which is why teams have had such a hard time retaining it. I like that: it would have been very easy for him to say "oh no you are always 100% for every game" etc.
19.00 Right let's get to it! Here are the Madrid team arriving in the Schalke Arena. Considerable hoopla.
18.55 Our first email of the evening comes from Jackson Simmons, who says:
Can't wait for the match, hoping to see Ronaldo knock some goals into the net.
Me too dude. Me too.
18.45 Team news as we have it.
18.40 And what about Bale? How's he doing, for you? Clive.
18.30 Evening all. Tyers here. How's it all going? We have news of a GOAL DROUGHT for Ronaldo - will the beleaguered Portuguese snap a shocking three-game run without a goal tonight?
------
Preview: Alan will be in at about 18.30 to bring you all the build-up, and then the match itself.
Before he gets in, have a read of the article above, and the preview below.
Real Madrid manager Carlo Ancelotti believes Ballon d'Or winner Cristiano Ronaldo will swiftly return to his best once he gets back on the score sheet.
The 30-year-old Portuguese star has gone three games without scoring and there were plenty of questions over his form and fitness ahead of titleholders Real's Champions League last 16 clash with Schalke on Wednesday.
Ronaldo has been struggling with a knee problem but Ancelotti said he was happy with his performance in the weekend league win over Deportivo La Coruna.
"Against Deportivo, I thought he was good from a physical point of view," the former AC Milan, Chelsea and Paris Saint-Germain coach said.
"He was able for the intensity of the game and he's making progress. He hasn't scored yet but tomorrow (Wednesday) is the next chance for him to get one."
Ancelotti confirmed that Pepe will return to the side for the first leg against Schalke in Germany.
The Portuguese hardman defender has missed almost a month of action due to the rib injury he suffered in a bruising Copa del Rey encounter with city rivals Atletico.
Fellow centre back Sergio Ramos and midfielders Luka Modric and James Rodriguez remain unavailable for Real, who are hoping to retain the Champions League trophy this season.
"It's a fantastic motivation for us," Ancelotti said.
"We were here last year with a dream to win the Champions League. We are here this year and we have the same dream.
"History says that it will be really difficult - almost impossible - but we have to try."
Wednesday's match sees Real midfielder Toni Kroos face Schalke for the first time since leaving Bayern Munich in the summer.
Last season Real became the first team to score six goals away from home in the knockout stages when they hammered Schalke 6-1 in the first leg of their last 16 tie.
But the Spanish league leaders have won on only three of their 27 trips to Germany in European competition. (Via AFP)
