http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/640203/s/432be3b2/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Creal0Emadrid0C113990A560CReal0EMadrid0Ehave0Enothing0Eto0Ecelebrate0Eafter0EAtletico0Ethrashing0Bhtml/story01.htm
Real Madrid have nothing to celebrate after Atletico thrashing
By Ian Hawkey
6:37PM GMT 08 Feb 2015
Comments
It has been a sobering fortnight for the leaders of Europe’s elite leagues. Bayern Munich conceded four times in a single game against Wolfsburg. That was a shock, but not a terminal setback. Chelsea let in four, against Bradford City. That was a sensation, but irrelevant to their title bid.
When Real Madrid, top of La Liga and in a far tighter title race than their German or English equivalents, concede four, without reply or even a meaningful shot, the tremors are louder, last longer.
The champions of Europe crept away from the Madrid derby debilitated by Atlético’s latest blitz on them. If Atletico victories over Real no longer count, technically, as ‘shocks’ – in six meetings this season, Atletico have won four times and drawn twice – a 4-0 scoreline still resonates.
It was a battering. It was also, if anything, mildly flattering to the losers. Had Real’s Sami Khedira been punished for blocking a shot with his hand in the penalty area, Atletico would have had three goals by half-time.
Contrition is compulsory for the losers in these circumstances and by Saturday night, a number of Real players were reminded to avoid being photographed with anything resembling a smile on their faces as they filed into a pre-arranged party at a private venue to celebrate Cristiano Ronaldo’s 30th birthday. An unfortunate piece of timing.
TV money row threatens to shut down La Liga
Misery for Ronaldo as Real are thrashed in derby
James and Jese goals secure Real win
Real Madrid v Sevilla: as it happened
One Spanish radio station on Sunday reported Ronaldo would be asked to apologise to colleagues and the club for having organised the festivities for derby day.
Bad timing: Ronaldo's birthday celebrations were spoiled by Real Madrid's defeat (GETTY IMAGES)
Pictures were released of Ronaldo looking as solemn as a man hosting 150 guests can, without appearing sour, while his colleagues James Rodriguez, Marcelo and Keylor Navas grinned into someone’s camera-phone before their images were Instagrammed past the control of the bouncers.
None of those three had been involved in the match. Nor had a trio of other senior men. Real’s several absences were only a partial alibi for a performance their coach Carlo Ancelotti described as the “worst” of his 18 months in charge. Ancelotti must live without James, who has just undergone surgery, for at least another two months while defender Sergio Ramos faces six weeks of recuperation.
Marcelo, suspended at the weekend, Luka Modric and Pepe should be back sooner. Madrid miss all of them. Their best football this season has been played by a clearly established first XI, identified since September by Ancelotti and barely rotated when he has them available. Peer too far beneath the Gala XI, and his back-up squad can look threadbare, particularly against a side as aggressive and organised as Atletico.
“There is not one player who had a good game,” said Ancelotti, although Navas, the reserve goalkeeper, might secretly think he had not had a bad day personally. Iker Casillas, the Real keeper, allowed Atletico’s first goal, Tiago’s firm drive, to squirm awkwardly under his hand and, three more goals later, discharged his captain’s duties by facing the media and getting snappy about whether his 13th minute mishap should be described as an “error”.
Torrid time: Iker Casillas let in four goals, starting with a bad error (GETTY IMAGES)
The Atletico captain Gabi, emerged much later from the dressing room. He was in no hurry to leave the Calderon. The home fans had demanded, fully 10 minutes after the final whistle, the players come back on to the pitch for an extra ovation.
“It’s always a great thing to beat Real Madrid,” Gabi beamed. He felt the good habits of recent months – a double in La Liga over their rivals, victory on aggregate in the Copa del Rey and in the Super Copa – had not just been maintained, but finessed. “We showed we can dominate many different aspects of the game.”
The same point was made by Diego Simeone, the Atletico coach. Simeone highlighted the “combination play” that undid Real, the passing and movement. He values the set-pieces, and swift counter-attacks that have been the trademarks of Atletico’s rise under his watch, but knows his team need to evolve, have a Plan B and C. Saturday’s was a not a victory by slam-dunk, via towering headers from corners, but one gained through sustained asphyxiation of Ancelotti’s team.
Its roll of honour had plenty of newcomers, too, players added since last season’s title. Atletico lost their best passer, Koke, to injury, inside ten minutes. His replacement, Saul, 20, came on and promptly scored their second goal via a spectacular overhead kick. Another to shine was left-back, Siqueira, who may yet become as influential as Felipe Luis, now of Chelsea, used to be.
There were goals for Mario Mandzukic and Antoine Griezmann, the strikers brought in last summer to replace Diego Costa. They have 11 goals between them in the month since the Spanish winter break ended.
Mandzukic thanked another new face, Fernando Torres for the excellent cross that set up Atletico’s fourth. Torres was thrilled to have a part in a historic day for the club he supports, and where he now drives into work past kiosks selling scarves that laud ‘The Kid Who Came Back Home’.
The affection is gratifying after the lonely months at Chelsea and AC Milan. Madrid derbies are unrecognisable from the repetitive storyline he knew when he was still The Kid, ‘El Nino’, in a struggling Atletico. Between 2001 and 2007, the young Torres played in nine matches against Real and never won. In the last four weeks, he has scored twice against Real – in the Cup – and twice been on the winning side.
“This Atletico is back winning again,” said Torres, a 77th minute substitute, “and competing regularly with Real and Barcelona. That compensates for the hard years, and, for supporters who are bit younger than me, it shows that the labels others used to stick on Atletico weren’t true.”
He was referring to the jinx, the years when Spain’s capital derby only ever meant points for the team in white. That jinx is now an antique, consigned to the club museum.
