http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568937/s/43062634/sc/28/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cfinance0Cnewsbysector0Cmediatechnologyandtelecoms0C113889650CThe0Ebest0ESuper0EBowl0Eads0Erecreated0Eout0Eof0ELego0Bhtml/story01.htm
The best Super Bowl ads recreated out of Lego
By Lauren Davidson
9:31AM GMT 04 Feb 2015
Comments
Just when you thought the Super Bowl couldn’t get more awesome, a British animation studio has recreated the sporting sensation’s best television adverts out of Lego.
Called Brick Bowl, the three and a half minute video follows an American football fan as he finds himself falling through his TV set into the world of the adverts.
A+C Studios, the Margate-based studio behind last year’s animated advert from Harrods that tells the story of a mouse turning on the store’s Christmas lights, created the stop motion animation in fewer than 36 hours using thousands of Lego bricks.
While some brands release digital content in the days running up to the Super Bowl, the majority of ads are not revealed until they air on television during the football game, meaning the animators had to react quickly to recreate the content.
The company said that the preparation for the project was “at times, mind-boggling”.
This puppy is the real winner of the Super Bowl
Femvertising: Advertisers cash in on #feminism
Christmas vs the SuperBowl: which ad season matters more?
Dan Richards, director at A+C Studios, said, "Stop motion productions can take anywhere between four months to four years to make. Turning this animation around in 36 hours and working with Lego to recreate the most prestigious ad slot in history into a new story has been a huge accomplishment.”
The Super Bowl attracts one of the largest television audiences in the world, with this year’s showdown between the New England Patriots and the Seattle Seahawks drawing a record 114.4m viewers to the live broadcast.
And brands pay dearly to get in front of this audience. This year, 30-seconds of air time cost $4.5m (£2.97m), the most expensive TV advertising slot in the world.
Much of the ad battle takes place online, with companies vying for the most shares across social media.
Budweiser’s story of the lost dog was declared by the video ad tech company Unruly to be the Super Bowl’s most viral ad, racking up more than 2m shares by the day after the sporting event. USA Today’s Ad Meter, which asks a consumer panel of roughly 6,700 people to rate the Super Bowl adverts, also declared Budweiser the winner, with an average vote of 8.1.
A+C Studios’ Brick Bowl video includes Budweiser’s emotional spot, as well as Skittles’ arm wrestling competition, Bud Light’s Pac-Man recreation, Toyota’s snowboarding spot with Amy Purdy, Esurance’s Breaking Bad parody, Kim Kardashian’s selfie shot for T-Mobile, Snickers’ Brady Bunch remake, Katy Perry’s half-time show and Jurassic Park’s new trailer.
Watch those adverts here.
Budweiser

Skittles

Bud Light

Toyota

Esurance

T-Mobile

Snickers

Katy Perry

Jurassic Park

