http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568937/s/42e8026b/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Camericanfootball0C113823350CSuper0EBowl0E20A150ETom0EBrady0Eready0Eto0Eetch0Ehis0Ename0Einto0Ehistory0Ewith0Erecord0Ebreaking0Ewin0Bhtml/story01.htm
Super Bowl 2015: Tom Brady ready to etch his name into history with record-breaking win
By Oliver Brown, Phoenix
7:00PM GMT 01 Feb 2015
Comments
The only impediment between Tom Brady and his sixth Super Bowl, a record for a quarterback, is a heavy cold, not helped by the fact that the fire alarm at his Phoenix hotel keeps going off at all hours of the night. But as befits a man completing his 15th season in a sport where a player’s career is typically over within four, he has an answer for everything.
On the advice of Alex Guerrero, his closest friend and “spiritual guru”, Brady is taking extra garlic supplements to be ready for the New England Patriots’ showdown tonight against the Seattle Seahawks here in the Arizona desert. This is to be expected: the 37-year-old, face of the franchise since the turn of the century, has an eye for detail so acute that he and his wife, the Brazilian supermodel Gisele Bundchen, admit they obsessively study the mineral values of the water stocked in their Manhattan fridge.
A headline in this week’s New York Times magazine was instructive: “Tom Brady cannot stop”. He occupies a life of such outward perfection – lantern-jawed looks, a portfolio of palatial homes across the land, a partner acclaimed ‘Most Beautiful Girl in the World’ by Rolling Stone – that his motivation is often questioned. Tonight, though, history beckons. For Brady clutches the opportunity to etch himself indelibly upon gridiron’s Mount Rushmore by joining Joe Montana and Terry Bradshaw as the only quarterbacks ever to lift the Vince Lombardi Trophy four times.
Extraordinarily, he has been waiting a decade. The Patriots’ run of three Super Bowls in four seasons from 2002 to 2005 stoked talk that Brady, a triple champion at 27 despite famously being drafted off the scrapheap in 199th place from his college in Michigan, could rewrite every quarterback record in the game. Alas, those dastardly New York Giants have denied him twice at the final hurdle: most woundingly in 2008 here in Phoenix, where Super Bowl defeat deprived New England of a perfect campaign after 18 successive wins.
When the Patriots succumbed again on the greatest stage four years later, it was more than Brady could bear. The image of him alone in the locker room afterwards, towel draped over his head as he stared in agony at his boots in the apparent search for some form of answer, is enduring. “I remember that feeling,” he said. “In this game, you hate to play anything less than your best, because you rack your brain for all the things you wish you could have done better. What if I had made this read? What if I had thrown it here? That’s what you deal with for the rest of your life.”
Super Bowl XLIX: Baffled? Here's all you need to know
Seahawks take lessons from rugby
The best Super Bowl adverts of 2015
Seahawk Sherman to make Super Bowl birth decision
Patriots owner Robert Kraft, the billionaire from Massachusetts who claims to regard Brady like his “fifth son”, believes he will derive extra incentive from a return to the University of Phoenix Stadium, scene of that Super Bowl nightmare seven years ago. “We talked about it and we’re happy and privileged that we have a chance to come back to Arizona and close the order,” Kraft said. “Tom is driven. He has watched tape of every one of Seattle’s game. I don’t think fans realise how hard he prepares and how he takes care of himself. I’ll be very surprised if he doesn’t have a great day.”
It is borderline miraculous that Brady, after another punishing season in which he won over detractors with a remarkable regular-season turnaround, is exhibiting fewer signs of wear and tear than a man half his age. For this he must thank Guerrero, the on-hand mentor who controls everything from his supply of avocado ice cream to the daily training sessions on his right arm, his all-important “money-maker”. The difficulty is that Guerrero’s techniques of injury prevention – “re-educating the muscles,” he called it, after recently ensuring that Brady missed only one practice session despite a serious calf strain – are not exactly conventional. The personal trainer admits that he is frequently called a “charlatan”.
Brady can live with these murmurs, if the methods ultimately sustain his career. For he is the embodiment of a man who, having defined his sense of self-worth entirely through the National Football League, is terrified even to contemplate what comes next. “What am I going to do, go scuba-diving?” he replied, when the idea of an outside hobby was broached. He appears to recognise that his wonderful life in the sport is destined to end badly. It always does: just study the example of Brett Favre, so tortured about the concept of retirement that he came back not once but twice, only to be dragged off the field at 41 after suffering one freight-train collision too many.
A third successive Super Bowl loss is impossible for Brady to countenance. It would disfigure the lineaments of his story, of the humble all-American boy who turned the Patriots into a legitimate 21st-Century dynasty, and perhaps taint his legacy irrevocably. To avert this, Brady needs to channel his lesser-seen darker side: the player whose favoured touchdown celebration is to butt helmets with team-mates like a madman, and who is not afraid of administering a little trash-talk to opponents he regards as inferior. One of them is Richard Sherman, the maverick, dreadlocked Seattle cornerback, who said: “People somehow get a skewed view of Tom Brady, that he’s just a clean-cut guy who does everything right and never says a bad work to anyone. We know him to be otherwise.” The battle-lines for Brady’s defining night could hardly be more starkly drawn.
