http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568937/s/42f18647/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cnews0Cpicturegalleries0Cworldnews0C113834850CThe0Ebest0Eof0ENFL0ESuper0EBowl0EXLIX0Ein0Epictures0Bhtml/story01.htm
The best of NFL Super Bowl XLIX, in pictures
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568937/s/42f18641/sc/27/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cculture0Cmusic0Cmusic0Enews0C11380A20A0A0Ckaty0Eperry0Esuperbowl0E20A150Ehalftime0Eshow0Ereview0Bhtml/story01.htm
Katy Perry's Super Bowl halftime show was like The Hunger Games crossed with SpongeBob SquarePants
By Neil McCormick
10:07AM GMT 02 Feb 2015
Comments
In her pre-show press conference, Katy Perry suggested her Super Bowl performance would be a spiritual experience. Well, perhaps if you worship at the altar of trashy American TV.
It turned out to be a gaudy cross between The Hunger Games, American Idol and SpongeBob SquarePants. She rode in like a futuristic gladiator, wearing a flame-inspired dress and standing astride a giant silver tiger puppet before changing into a stripy cheerleader outfit for a beach themed interlude dancing with inflatable friendly sharks and googly-eyed palm trees.
She exited 12 and a half minutes later, flying across the stadium beneath the boom of a crane, whilst fireworks exploded around her.

What could it all possibly mean? It was a performance that could only have been dreamed up by committee, a kind of public argument between stage builders, lighting technicians, costume designers and choreographers, with lots of ideas flying around and no central theme. And not much in the way of music, for that matter.
The best Super Bowl adverts of 2015
Super Bowl 2015: how Katy Perry helped Missy Elliott get her freak on
Katy Perry's dancing shark fail
As is becoming customary at big televisual events, Perry dispensed with the luxury of live musicians to perform a medley of hits to a backing track. She squeezed in a brief verse and chorus from eight hits, as if afraid to stop anywhere too long.
Whatever happened to singing a whole song? A few years ago, there was speculation that the internet generation’s short-attention-span would lead to a form of ringtone pop. Well, here it was. Perry’s set referred to songs rather than delivering them. Here’s a hookline, here’s a catchphrase, and just when you’re going "oh, I know this one" here’s something else for you to look at and listen to. Perhaps it was a conceptual tribute to a sport that seems to interrupt itself every few seconds for commercials.
The centrepiece of America’s favourite sporting event is an event in its own right, the half-time show where a huge TV audience can be tempted to buy your greatest hits. The lucky star is expected to treat it as a great honour and pull out all the stops to put on a state-of-the-art extravaganza, and Perry certainly did both, dazzling us with digital floor shows and pyrotechnics, and exiting to the yell of “God bless America.”

Yet for all Perry’s popularity, she is not really an iconic American star. Indeed, she could have been designed by committee herself: a little of the conceptual value of Lady Gaga, a hint of the charismatic choreography of Beyonce, a sprinkle of the everywoman wit and charm of Taylor Swift and just a soupcon of the brazen salaciousness of Rihanna.
Even her guest stars somehow reflected this lack of purpose, contributing to the oddity of a very odd occasion. No one ever dreamed about one day witnessing a duet between Perry and flashy American rocker Lenny Kravitz. Trust me on this.
Whilst the semi-retired Missy Elliot’s mini-three song medley seemed designed just to remind fickle pop audiences that she existed. Are they label mates? Have the A-list not been returning Perry’s calls?
If a visitor from another planet had tuned in to this spectacle, they would surely have been as confused about the state of modern pop entertainment as they would about the rules of American football. But at least they would have experts queuing up to explain the latter.

