http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568315/s/44a6cda1/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Ccompetitions0Cpremier0Eleague0C114873340CNewcastle0EUnited0E10EArsenal0E20Ematch0Ereport0EOlivier0EGiroud0Ekeeps0EChampions0ELeague0Echarge0Eon0Etrack0Bhtml/story01.htm
Newcastle United 1 Arsenal 2, match report: Olivier Giroud keeps Champions League charge on track
By Jason Mellor, at St James's Park
7:30PM GMT 21 Mar 2015
Comments
Having had sand kicked in their faces for 45 minutes, Newcastle United finally gave notice that they might not be on the beach after all. Even Phil Neville, their Match of the Day nemesis whose 'flip-flop’ jibe to describe their display in the defeat at Everton so upset John Carver, felt compelled to tweet his appreciation of a stirring second- half display.
It was one which threatened a mini-version of their recovery from four goals down here to earn a point against these opponents in 2011, but was not quite to be.

Two first-half goals from Olivier Giroud enabled the visitors to make a successful start to the now annual early spring post-Champions League exit phase of the campaign, the inability to maintain first-half dominance the only disappointment for Arsène Wenger. “Newcastle played very well in the second-half,” the Frenchman conceded after a seventh consecutive victory in this fixture. He added: “We had an outstanding first half going forward, and after half-time we had to show different qualities.”
• Giroud needs more love at Arsenal - and four other things we learned
Arsenal are four points behind leaders Chelsea, albeit having played two games more, after strengthening their hold on third place with a sixth successive league win and 14th victory in 16 in all competitions.
Deflecting talk of a title challenge, Wenger is more concerned with the chasing pack in the competition to seal Champions League qualification. He said: “Chelsea have a good security and I feel they have enough of a cushion to be quite serene. Behind us is tight as well, we are in a fight to finish in the top four. Let’s take it one step at a time.”
Worry: John Carver has concerns at Newcastle
That Arsenal would be the ones eagerly awaiting the final whistle seemed incomprehensible as they scored two quick goals. Both came from set-pieces delivered by Santi Cazorla, the first in the 24th minute from a free-kick into the area flicked on by Danny Welbeck to Giroud, who applied the decisive touch with his knee from 10 yards.
The second came from a Cazorla corner, Giroud showing greater will than Mike Williamson to stand his ground and find the bottom corner with a header, taking his tally to eight in his last six games against Newcastle, and nine in his last nine appearances this season.
Pointing up: Olivier Giroud celebrates at Newcastle
With just two wins from the 12 games overseen by Carver, the ramifications for his hopes of landing the role of head coach permanently in the summer are clear, but he at least coaxed a performance of note from his players after the interval.
Did you know Telegraph Sport has an ?

They were buoyed by halving the deficit three minutes after the restart, Remy Cabella crossing from the right for Moussa Sissoko to beat David Ospina with a low volley from close range.
As Arsenal’s influence wane to the point where late saves from Tim Krul to deny Welbeck and substitute Hector Bellerin were the visitors’ only second-half threats, there were ample opportunities to level. Ayoze Perez curled a shot wide, Yoan Gouffran produced a backpass of an effort and Ospina blocked from Sissoko.
Grim-faced: Mike Ashley looks unimpressed with Newcastle's efforts
Cabella’s late penalty appeals were ignored, before Ospina saved as a deflected Perez effort threatened an unexpected sharing of the spoils. “We scored an Arsenal-type goal and from that point we took the game to them,” Carver said. “There certainly wasn’t anyone wearing flip flops or on the beach today.”
