http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568315/s/44872d82/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Carsenal0C11480A0A380CArsenal0Emust0Eresolve0Etheir0Emental0Eweakness0Eor0Ethey0Ewill0Eremain0Edoomed0Efor0Efailure0Bhtml/story01.htm
Arsenal must resolve their mental weakness or they will remain doomed to failure
By Jeremy Wilson
1:09PM GMT 18 Mar 2015
Comments
“Insanity,” said Albert Einstein, “is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results.”
It was a quote that was once put to Arsene Wenger, who predictably offered some alternative wisdom. Keep changing and you achieve nothing in life, replied the Arsenal manager. It would have been a fair riposte if we did now see a clear and tangible advance in Arsenal’s journey.
Yet for the fifth year in succession, we have arrived at the same destination and are left to dissect a Champions League campaign that has ended at the first knockout stage.
• Giroud gave his all but could not atone for first-leg misses • Monaco 0 Arsenal 2: Champions League match report • How Arsenal's players rated in Monaco • What Arsenal must learn from Euro heartbreak
That Arsenal almost made it on Tuesday night against Monaco, that they were clearly the better team and ultimately succumbed to something close to heroic failure was, in its own way, actually more damning than simply being outplayed. Not being good enough is one thing. Failing to get something close to the best out of yourself at the moment of maximum importance is quite another.
A brief conversation with just about any fan on the flight from Gatwick to Nice on Monday morning had invariably ended with the same prediction. “We’ll win 2-0,” they said.

They had lived through the cycle of despair, hope and then disappointment in startlingly similar exits against Bayern Munich and AC Milan in recent seasons.
It was as if everyone connected with Arsenal, players included, subconsciously already knew their own ending. This struggle to push through a partially opened door is not confined to the Champions League.
Yes, they ultimately stumbled through in the FA Cup last year against Wigan and then Hull City but look also at how Arsenal accumulated more points than any other Premier League team in the calendar year of 2013. That said something for the playing quality of that team but equally revealing was how they failed to put it together when it would really have resulted in something momentous during the 2012-13 or 2013-14 seasons.
How Arsenal are now finishing this season so strongly – they have won 20 out of their past 25 games – when it is probably too late to mount a serious Premier League challenge to Chelsea also fits this infuriating pattern. Per Mertesacker hit the nail on the head before the Tuesday’s match when he pointed squarely at the biggest single issue. Mentality.
Arsene Wenger is lacking leaders to give Arsenal some direction
Arsenal’s greatest weakness is no longer their respective spending power (though they do remain behind the two Manchester clubs and Chelsea on this scale) and it is certainly not technique or the basic quality of the players. No, the biggest single problem comes down to the lack of a certain type of personality in the dressing-room.
There will now be a huge focus on the changes that Wenger should make to his squad in order to mount a better challenge next season. He will have around £50 million to spend and a new centre-back, central midfielder and goalkeeper are all under consideration.
Southampton Morgan Schneiderlin and Borussia Dortmund’s Neven Subotic are among those being regularly scouted but, in the vast research that is done into every prospective signing, Wenger should pay a particularly close attention to the psychological profile.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Did you know Telegraph Sport has an ?

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
What he needs more than any specific improvement in a single position is one or two additions with the on-field instinct to manage a situation like the first leg against Monaco. To put it bluntly, Wenger also needs to insert into his team something closer to the win at (virtually) all costs mentality that seems to pervade the Chelsea dressing-room.
Jose Mourinho is probably sufficiently smart not to countenance a sale to Arsenal but the addition of a character like Petr Cech would be a game-changer for Arsenal. So too a John Terry, Diego Costa or Wayne Rooney. Mertesacker, Mikel Arteta and Jack Wilshere are the closest in Wenger’s current team but there are not enough. The frustration is that Arsenal mostly do again now have the players to compete with the elite of Europe.
In terms of pure footballing quality, this was their best chance to make a lasting impression on the Champions League since reaching the 2008 semi-finals. A huge rebuilding job is not needed.
Southampton's Morgan Schneiderlin has been regularly scouted by Arsenal
These may sound like hollow words but the pieces really are almost in place to compete for the Premier League title again and certainly to reach the latter stages of the Champions League. Two wins in Manchester since Christmas tells you that. So too a squad list that contains Alexis Sanchez, Mesut Ozil, Danny Welbeck, Aaron Ramsey, Olivier Giroud, Santi Cazorla, Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, Theo Walcott and Laurent Koscielny.
Taken individually, there is also nothing wrong with the mentality or personality of the players. They are mostly diligent young professionals who are still maturing and growing into potential leaders.
The problem has been in the collective blend. If Arsenal are to deliver where it really matters, it is this subtle but hugely significant imbalance that Wenger must redress. If he does not, further seasons of only very qualified success – top four finishes and reaching the last 16 of the Champions League – beckon.
It would mean not giving his historic tenure as Arsenal manager the best chance to finish on the high that it largely deserves. That really would feel like insanity.
