http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568315/s/44811012/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Carsenal0C114790A330CMonaco0Ev0EArsenal0EChampions0ELeague0Eplayer0Eratings0Bhtml/story01.htm
Monaco v Arsenal, Champions League: player ratings
By Jeremy Wilson
9:48PM GMT 17 Mar 2015
Comments
David Ospina - A spectator for basically the entire game as Arsenal pressed forward and Monaco became camped inside their own half. Did not have a save of note to make.
Hector Bellerin - He did occasionally risk leaving Arsenal exposed with his runs forward but generally picked his moments well and provided an excellent cross for Giroud that almost resulted in a goal
Per Mertesacker - The pattern of the game ensured that it would be a quite night for the Arsenal captain but he was commanding when needed and read the game well to negate the threat of Berbatov.
Laurent Koscielny - Only sporadically called into action but he did threaten from set-pieces. Had first-half shot which smacked off crossbar and, despite offside flag, replays showed that it should have counted.
Nacho Monreal - More circumspect in his decisions to burst forward from full-back than Bellerin but played a key part in Arsenal’s first goal after a strong run into the Monaco penalty area.
Francis Coquelin - Was initially sloppy with some of his passing but gradually helped Arsenal assume control of midfield and form the base from which they dominated while also restricting Monaco’s threat
Santi Cazorla - Another industrious and technically impressive central midfield performance. Kept Arsenal on the front run and repeatedly released Welbeck while missing one volleyed chance of his own
Alexis Sanchez - Provided his usual vast energy but has lost the edge he had earlier in the season. Still unfortunate to be booked diving when he might have won a penalty and then had a late header well saved
Mesut Ozil - Far more effective than the first leg both with his passing and how he drifted into space between Monaco’s midfield and attack. Forced an excellent second-half save from Subasic with his free-kick.
Danny Welbeck - His running and movement was a huge first-half problem for Monaco. Provided the cross for Giroud’s first and had a goal-bound shot of his own blocked by Abdennour
Olivier Giroud - A performance far more in keeping with his excellent recent form. Headed an early chance only narrowly over and finished calmly at the second attempt to put Arsenal into the lead.
Arsenal substitutions: Aaron Ramsey replaced Coquelin and scored his second goal in four days with a calm finish after Theo Walcott, another substitute, had hit the post. Kieran Gibbs was also a late replacement for Monreal
• Welbeck's control lets him down too often - and four other lessons • Monaco 0 Arsenal 2: match report by Henry Winter • Ozil under fire over shirt-swap

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Danijel Subasic - Smothered Giroud’s initial shot for Arsenal’s first but then powerless to prevent the follow-up. Also made a good reaction save to deny Giroud and then a brilliant second-half save from Ozil
Fabinho - Moved to right-back after playing in central midfield during the first leg and looked less assured. The pace and movement of Welbeck was a particular problem throughout the first-half.
Aymen Abdennour - A commanding physical presence and made what was probably a goal-saving block to deny Welbeck. His back header did also almost gift Koscielny with a first-half goal
Wallace - His pace ensured that he was preferred at centre-back to the more experienced Ricardo Carvalho and struggled with the physical strength of Giroud as well as the fluidity of Arsenal’s attacks
Layvin Kurzawa - Pinned back by Bellerin and Sanchez but struggled most when Welbeck drifted out to the right and ran directly at him. Offered only the most limited attacking threat
Jeremy Toulalan - Back into the Monaco team after missing the first game and began with real authority. His influence faded, however, and he looked short of match fitness following recent injury.
Geoffrey Kondogbia - A huge holding midfield presence who has been a major figure across both legs of the tie. Strong in the tackle and good anticipation but did struggle to pick up the runs of Ozil and Welbeck
Nabil Dirar - Fortunate not to concede a first-half penalty following a clumsy challenge on Sanchez. There were early flashes of his creative threat but generally needed to help restrict Welbeck’s threat
Joao Moutinho - Another who began strongly as Monaco dictated the early exchanges. Always dangerous with his vision to release quick counter-attacks but forced to spend most of the evening defending.
Anthony Martial - Monaco’s best chances were generally in the space that had been vacated by Bellerin but his delivery was erratic and, like much of the Monaco, mostly focused on his defensive work.
Dimitar Berbatov - Held the ball up well at the start of the match but Arsenal’s dominance of possession and Monaco’s greater caution ensured that he was a peripheral presence before being substituted.
Monaco substitutions: Monaco carried more attacking threat once Martial was replaced by Yannick Ferreira Carrasco and he almost created a goal with his ball across Arsenal’s six-yard box. Bernard Silva and Elderson were also introduced respectively for Berbatov and Dirar
