http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568315/s/446b5fe6/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Carsenal0C114740A210CArsene0EWenger0EWe0Ecan0Edo0Esomething0Especial0Ein0EMonaco0Bhtml/story01.htm
Arsene Wenger: We can do something special in Monaco
By Jeremy Wilson
10:42PM GMT 15 Mar 2015
Comments
Olivier Giroud described football as “an everlasting new beginning” on Saturday but, if there was ever one ending that he must yearn to script, it is surely Arsenal’s Champions League tie against Monaco.
In his three new beginnings since the first leg finished in something close to personal humiliation, Giroud might have scored three times but the chance for redemption will fuel a motivation that must stretch far beyond simply reaching the quarter-final.
“We can go there and create something special,” claimed Arsene Wenger after a 3-0 win against West Ham United that mirrors the scoreline his team now need on the Cote d’Azur tomorrow following the 3-1 defeat at the Emirates.
History suggests that Arsenal will need something of a fairytale as well as that new beginning as no club has overcome an equivalent first leg deficit in Champions League history, but there are reasons for qualified hope.
Saturday was certainly another performance to suggest that, for all the sense of deja-vu against Monaco three weeks ago, that result was the bigger anomaly in the wider context of the season.
Arsenal have now won 19 of their past 24 matches and, after reaching the FA Cup semi-finals, have also ended the week within a point of Manchester City in the Premier League.
Pointing the way: Arsene Wenger instructs his team
For Giroud, who was substituted to cheers after missing a series of chances against Monaco, the broader narrative is of 11 goals in 16 games.
Giroud had spoken of feeling “embarrassed” after the Champions League game but, as he left the Emirates after another goal and assist on Saturday, was adamant that a remarkable comeback remains feasible.
“Of course,” he said. “We trust in our chance. If you let the doubts enter your head it’s even more difficult to cope.”
•Mourinho: Arsenal are back in the title race
•Why Giroud is a flat-track bully - and what else we learnt
And what of his own emphatic response? Wenger says he was never concerned for the resilience of a player who, only five years ago, was playing in the lower divisions of the French league.
“There are always tough moments,” Giroud said. “You have to question yourself every week and bounce back. I try to show my answer on the pitch.
“Football is a sport where you need to have a strong mentality. It’s like life. You have to have a conscience about it and be aware. Don’t believe the people who talk too much. I know when I play well or not.
"I used to say that football is an everlasting new beginning. You have to be aware of that and do it. I think we learned from our mistakes and we will go to Monaco with a lot of confidence.”
Did you know Telegraph Sport has an ?

Wenger has since sat down and analysed those mistakes with the players. He believes that kamikaze attacking was Arsenal’s problem rather than complacency.
“We knew that we were impatient and threw ourselves forward too much,” said Wenger. “I think we wanted it too much. We forgot our basics. What you want in life is the chance to put it right. Sometimes you make a big mistake and there’s no comeback. We have the opportunity.”
On the march: Mesut Ozil in action against West Ham
It might sound like straw clutching but, from their recent experience in the Champions League of almost overturning big first leg deficits, Arsenal know that Monaco will be unsure how to approach tomorrow’s game.
Wenger sought to underline that psychological dilemma when asked if the pressure would be on his old club.
“They’ve already won it - they can still lose it,” he said. Team selection will clearly be vital and, after Aaron Ramsey scored for the first time in 2015, Wenger must decide whether to recall Santi Cazorla.
Theo Walcott must also be struggling to retain his place after missing a series of first-half chances against West Ham.
Arsenal’s dominance rendered such profligacy irrelevant and Sam Allardyce was sufficiently upset on Saturday to pass his post-match media duties to assistant Neil McDonald.
After hovering around the top four during so much of the season, a run of three draws and four defeats has seen them fall to 10th.
Angry: Sam Allardyce was upset by another defeat
The lack of clarity over Allardyce’s future cannot be helping as the club seek to recover some semblance of momentum. “It would be nice for that [Allardyce’s contract] to be sorted wouldn’t it, yes,” said McDonald.
“But the manager has stated it will be sorted at the end of the season. I’m not so sure it is affecting the players because the performances have been really good.
"Sam was angry the way we conceded the two goals towards the end. Our progression is trying to get into the top eight.
"At the start of the season it was top 10 but, with the points we started off with, it was realistic to set the target a little bit higher.”
