http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568759/s/4460269d/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cmotorsport0Cformulaone0Clewishamilton0C114713840CAustralian0EGrand0EPrix0E20A150EThe0Eprize0Efor0ELewis0EHamilton0Ethis0Eseason0Elegendary0Estatus0Eas0Ehe0Eeyes0Ethird0Eworld0Etitle0Bhtml/story01.htm
Australian Grand Prix 2015: The prize for Lewis Hamilton this season - legendary status as he eyes third world title
By Daniel Johnson, F1 Correspondent, Melbourne
10:30PM GMT 13 Mar 2015
Comments
Unlike some of his contemporaries, Lewis Hamilton has never been a great student of Formula One. He could, seemingly, forget how many records he holds if only others did not remind him. This year, however, the stakes are higher than simply adding to his contribution to the history books. Legendary status is the prize.
Joining his hero Ayrton Senna on three world championships – the same number as Britain’s most prolific driver, Sir Jackie Stewart – is part of the equation. This is a results business, after all. But should Hamilton triumph again, it will elevate him to a higher plane.
Comparisons with other trailblazing black sportsmen, such as Muhammad Ali, Tiger Woods, or Usain Bolt, may seem far-fetched at this stage. Hamilton has plenty of work to do, starting with Sunday’s race here in Melbourne. Yet if he makes the best of the opportunity before him, in the decades ahead it is not inconceivable that reverence for his achievements will reach similarly stratospheric levels.
Ayrton Senna (left) was a three-time world champion (AP)
In the here and now of defending his championship, such a subject is not at the forefront of his mind. “When I think about legendary it sounds like it’s just a word,” the 30-year-old said, from the Mercedes hospitality unit this week.
• David Coulthard ranks the teams for 2015
“When you think of Tiger [Woods], you think, ‘yes, he’s a legend’, but you say it like he’s cool. What he’s achieved – that’s incredible. Which ultimately means he is a legend.”
But Hamilton does allow himself at least a brief look at how he might be perceived in the future should he continue on his trajectory. “I hope when I am retired and much, much older, perhaps in 30 years’ time, a kid might use that phrase for me.”
• Can Hamilton handle Nicole split under pressure?
First he must negotiate the Australian Grand Prix more effectively than when he was last the defending champion, in 2009. That title defence began here in Albert Park with Hamilton light-years off the pace in a recalcitrant McLaren, and ended in ignominy when he was disqualified for misleading the stewards.

Six years on, Hamilton’s existence is as whirlwind as ever, but this time he has all the tools to become the first Briton in the history of Formula One to win back-to-back world championships.
Since arriving on his refulgent red, private jet, the reigning champion has posed in one of Melbourne’s graffiti-laden back alleys, his hands clasped against his chest, and been continually told that his rivals have no hope of thwarting his quest for a third title.
• The problems affecting F1, and how to fix them
The path Hamilton hopes to tread this year will be recorded not just by the ever-present gaggle of cameras and tape recorders, but by his increasingly eclectic – and, to some tastes, bizarre – output on social media. Hamilton has enlisted the help of his friend, Dan ‘Spinz’ Forrest, a record producer by trade, who could be seen in the crowded Melbourne paddock taking photographs for his Instagram and Twitter channels.
But the only picture of relevance to this season was the state of the timing screens after barely half an hour of free practice yesterday.
Hamilton and team-mate Nico Rosberg occupied the top spots, two seconds clear of the field. It was an astonishing marker. With Mercedes clearly the dominant force again, you could forgive Hamilton for being taken in with the popular narrative that he will walk this championship. However, unlike most in F1, he is not taking it as given that he will be crowned champion at the final race in Abu Dhabi or perhaps much sooner than Nov 29. Not a bit of it.
Hamilton will achieve 'great' status if he can win a third title (GETTY IMAGES)
In his initial media engagements in Australia, Hamilton had appeared largely disinterested (his description was “chilled”) in most of the questions. But when asked whether there was a danger of complacency setting in, he snapped into focus.
With sudden intensity, he said: “There’s absolutely zero danger for me. I don’t feel like I’m defending my championship. I want to win this year. There’s a championship for the taking, and hopefully we have the car to fight for it.
• Forget the good old days, F1 has never been better
“Damn, I want to win it. I want to go and grab it. More than ever. At least as much as last year, and hopefully even more.”
Rosberg enters this repeat of his duel with Hamilton wiser, more experienced, with a steely determination. Becoming a father may even unlock another stage in his development. His wife, Vivian Sibold, is due to give birth in August, in the middle of F1’s summer break.
“That’s German efficiency for you,” the 29-year-old joked. “I have done my best with Vivian to sort things out so I can concentrate on the racing. It makes me stronger because it is a big moment for the family.”
Nico Rosberg is Hamilton's biggest rival (REX FEATURES)
He appears to have pushed the disappointments of last year to the recesses of his mind. “One of the strengths of racing drivers is that we can move on rather than dwell on things. It’s unfortunate when you win, but good when you lose.”
Yet for all Rosberg’s powers of mental fortitude, there in their battles so far Hamilton has been the master on track. Last year he raced better, dealt with adversity superbly, and was faultless in wheel-to-wheel combat. As much as Rosberg may have improved, Hamilton should be a better driver this season, too.
• Meet F1's latest Brit on the grid
There are still chinks in the armour. His split from Nicole Scherzinger may – as it has done in the past – have a destabilising effect. Personally negotiating his future appears to be an unwelcome distraction, too.
But the strength of his talent should overwhelm all obstacles, Rosberg included. With the opposition desperately scrambling to catch up, Hamilton can stamp his authority on this championship. It will come to define how highly he is regarded once he hangs up his gloves.
