http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568759/s/43d6b144/sc/18/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cmotorsport0Cformulaone0C114386970CMcLaren0Ehave0Eto0Ewait0Efor0Edoctors0Eorders0Eover0EFernando0EAlonso0Ewhile0Ecar0Esuffers0Eyet0Eanother0Efailure0Ein0Etesting0Bhtml/story01.htm
McLaren have to wait for doctors orders over Fernando Alonso while car suffers yet another failure in testing
By Daniel Johnson, F1 Correspondent
10:38PM GMT 26 Feb 2015
Comments
There was no improvement in McLaren’s disastrous preparations for the new season on Thursday, with the team raising the prospect of Fernando Alonso not being fit to start the campaign and Jenson Button managing just seven laps before yet another car failure.
Ron Dennis, the McLaren chairman, conceded that even if he felt Alonso would “fly through” any medical tests after his serious accident in testing on Sunday, it was in the hands of the doctors. Dennis gave a press conference designed to quell some of the speculation about Alonso’s accident but questions remain both about the precise nature of the Spaniard’s condition and the competitiveness of this year’s car.
Dennis said that Alonso had not been concussed, although he did concede that the 33-year-old had been unconscious for a “few seconds” and had suffered some memory loss. The two-times Formula One champion spent three nights in hospital and is recovering at his family home in Oviedo in northern Spain. “He’s completely lucid, talking, really wants to drive and go testing,” Dennis said.
Asked if Alonso would be able to race in Australia on March 15, Dennis said: “I can’t foresee any reason why not, but I’m not the doctor. There will be some tests, there are processes laid down within the FIA, and I can’t see any reason why he won’t sail through. There is a procedure under the FIA that they evaluate a driver. And probably if they did it now, he would pass.”
The team had already been forced to deny speculation that Alonso had been electrocuted in the car or was unconscious immediately before the crash. Dennis said it was a “complete fabrication” to suggest McLaren had been hiding the truth.
Schumacher 'sells Norwegian holiday home for £1.8m'
Alonso place in Australia uncertain
Alonso out of hospital... but may miss Australia
Why Fernando Alonso is a lucky man
On the track, after seven laps way off the pace, Button had to abandon his day in the afternoon when a hydraulic leak prompted the umpteenth engine change of pre-season. With three days of running left before the first race, time is running out for the reunited McLaren-Honda partnership.
But McLaren were not the only team to suffer reliability gremlins in Barcelona. Lewis Hamilton was restricted to 48 laps after a failure with the energy-recovery systems on his Mercedes.Hamilton had set a blistering fast time in the morning, only for it to be outdone by Williams’s Felipe Massa.
