Craig Gordon: Playing for Scotland again was the greatest achievement of my career
By Ewing Grahame
10:00PM GMT 19 Nov 2014
Comments
Craig Gordon, the Celtic goalkeeper, won his 41st cap for Scotland when he replaced David Marshall at half-time in the 3-1 defeat By England at Parkhead on Tuesday.
It came four years and two days after he made his 40th appearance and, although he found himself retrieving the ball from his net two minutes after the restart and ended up on the losing side, the 31-year-old regards pulling that jersey over his head again as the greatest achievement of his career.
The Scottish Cup triumph with Hearts and the £9 million move to Sunderland the following year – which made him the most expensive custodian in British football history – pale into insignificance compared to the Herculean efforts which brought him back to the international scene.
Broken arms and cruciate ligament damage saw him play just once for Sunderland between February 2011 and May 2012, when he was released.
He spent the next two years without a club, wondering whether or not he would ever be able to resume his career but refusing to give up.
Robertson: Scotland not at their best against England
FA apologises for fans' offensive chants
Celtic Park provides raucousness - but little else
Wilshere can be England's midfield quarter-back
He trained with Rangers last season but, when no offer was forthcoming from the Championship contenders, he jumped at the opportunity to join the Scottish champions and, following the sale of Fraser Forster to Southampton in August, he has established himself as an automatic pick at Celtic Park. Returning to representative action was, though, the icing on the cake.
“This means as much as anything – 100 per cent,” he said. “I worked hard to come through as a youngster, but to have that taken away and then work so much harder to get back then it makes it more special.
“It didn’t come easy. My career was on the up-and-up [until 2011] so to start from nothing makes it a long way back. I’ve now put it to bed and I can get on with my career now.”
Many players, given a similar set of circumstances, would have given up. Others would have settled for being able to compete at club level but that was never the extent of Gordon’s ambition.
Now, having regained the summit, he hopes to join Alan Rough and Jim Leighton in the Scottish Football Association’s Hall of Fame, membership of which is restricted to those who have been capped on 50 occasions.
“Getting back to international football was what drove me on: that was definitely a goal of mine – to get back with Scotland,” he said.
“I didn’t know where I would be playing my club football or even if I’d have to drop down a level to get a bigger club – I didn’t know the route but playing for Scotland again was the one thing that kept me going.
“My aim was just one more cap to start with and now I’ve got that – I’d better adjust my aims now. I want to get as many caps as I possibly can and this was a start.”
Facing England for the first time was an emotional experience for Gordon but only afterwards, when he was able to reflect on how far he had come since being released by Sunderland 3½ years ago.
“I didn’t have much of a chance to savour it – I was picking the ball out of the net after 90 seconds!” he said. “I was into the game and I didn’t have time to think about it.
“But standing at the side waiting to come on was probably that moment, when I knew it was going to happen. I turned round to see my mum and dad, my wife and four-year-old girl up in the stand. I knew then that that was me back as an international player.”
Understandably, Gordon is not content to be a squad member under Gordon Strachan: he intends to make himself first choice for his country once again. Allan McGregor and Marshall have legitimate claims of their own but, displaying the determination which allowed him to resume his career, the Celtic man believes he will prevail.
“We have a few months before we meet again and it will be good to get back at Celtic and have some European games and press on in the league and go on and do well there.
“I want to push for a starting place with Scotland. If I can buckle down and do well at Celtic I can give myself an opportunity to play again.
“Is there a No 1? That depends which keeper you ask! I believe if I can keep working and knocking on the door then I still have a chance to play in qualifiers.
“You don’t know what can happen to the other keepers. I just have to concentrate on myself and we can see what happens.”

