http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/672978/s/40ae3043/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cplayers0Cgareth0Ebale0C112428560CGareth0EBale0Emy0Efavourite0Egoals0Bhtml/story01.htm
Gareth Bale: my favourite goals
By Charlie Parrish
11:00AM GMT 20 Nov 2014
Comments
Gareth Bale has already scored plenty of goals in his career.
After starting his career at just 16 years and 275 days, he has picked up 10 for first club Southampton, 55 at Tottenham Hotspur and fast-rising totals of 14 international strikes and 28 so far into his Real Madrid stay.
The 25-year-old (yes, he's scored over a century of goals by 25, despite spending the first few years of his career either injured, at left back, or cursed) also only seems to enjoy scoring incredibly spectacular goals.
Long range free kicks, last minute top corner howitzers, full-length-of-the-pitch-gallops; his goalscoring portfolio is essentially the opposite of Gary Lineker's.
Bale is also one for the big occasion. He has scored hat-tricks away at reigning European champions, in north London derbies, Champions League finals against city rivals and Cup finals versus Barcelona.
Gareth Bale: 'Without Real Madrid, it would have been very, very difficult to have ever left Spurs'
Gareth Bale photoshoot: behind the scenes
Pochettino needs Mitchell's nous
Bale: I could return to Tottenham
Whilst sat down for an exclusive interview with The Telegraph in Madrid, we asked him to pick out some of his favourites.
If he left out any of your favourites, let us know in the Comments below.
So, in no particular order ...
PHOTO: Getty
Real Madrid 2 Barcelona 1, 2014 Copa del Rey Final Mestalla, Valencia, 16 April 2014
It's 1-1 in an El Classico cup final and there are five minutes to go. Bale picks up the ball just inside his own half, running at Marc Bartra. Forced several feet outside the left touchline by the Barcelona defender, Bale simply takes the long way round, leaving Bartra for dead and slotting past José Manuel Pinto to give Madrid a famous victory.
Bale: 'This was just an amazing experience. Every kid dreams of scoring the winning goal in a final and to do it against Barcelona – our biggest rivals – was quite surreal. At the time, I had no clue how far off the pitch I was when I made that run. He obviously tried to foul me to stop me, but I knew if I got past him I'd be through on goal, so I just knew I had to keep going. I then just remember the ball going into the back of the net and going crazy in front of the Barcelona fans. They were just sticking their fingers up at me and throwing things. It was an amazing feeling.
We got into the changing room after the game and everyone was looking at their phones. I asked them what they were looking at it and it was these Roadrunner videos people had made on the Internet of the goal. I just found it hilarious.'
PHOTO: Getty
West Ham United 2 Tottenham Hotspur 3, FA Premier League 2012/13| Upton Park, 25 February 2013
Tottenham, desperate for points to stay in contention for a Champions League place, are pushing for a winner against their London rivals. Into the 90th minute, Bale embarks on a run and is fouled, but the referee waves play on with Spurs still in possession. Bale dusts himself off, demands the ball from Tom Carroll and takes three touches before unloading a 25-year-old rocket into the top right hand corner.
Bale: 'It’s one that definitely sticks out in my mind and always will. It’s not my actual favourite goal in terms of the ones I've hit, but in terms of the feeling and the point of the game that it happened, it was brilliant. We were fighting for fourth spot and needed to keep up with the teams around us. And there are certain teams down there you always need to be and should be beating.
To get the winner in the last minute in that fashion was incredible and I think the celebrations with André Villas-Boas afterwards showed how important it was to me.'
PHOTO: Action Images
Swansea City 1 Tottenham Hotspur 2, FA Premier League 2012/13 Liberty Stadium, 30 March 2013
In the 20th minute and Spurs already one goal ahead, Bale receives a sharp reverse pass from Jan Vertonghen just outside the area. He takes one touch with his right foot before expertly slicing the ball into the bottom left corner with the outside of his left boot.
Bale: 'I know it's weird, but my favourite goal for Spurs is actually this one away at Swansea. It was a snapshot and something I'd been trying in training for a while. When it's something you've been working on and it comes off, you're extra pleased with the goal.
People talk about Jan's assist with this one and it was a beautiful pass. But I had set him up ten minutes earlier, so he owed me ...'
PHOTO: Getty
Wales 2 Scotland 1, Fifa 2014 World Cup Qualifying Group A Cardiff City Stadium, 12 October 2012
After hauling Wales level through an 81st minute penalty (that he'd also won), Bale was allowed to gallop into the Scotland half almost unchallenged with two minutes to go. Despite falling backwards, he arched a spectacular shot from 22 yards beyond Allan MacGregor for a famous Welsh victory.
Bale: 'I loved this one and it was a fantastic comeback. It was one of those strikes that you manage to connect with so cleanly, even though I was falling over as I hit it! I just love scoring for my country, particularly in front of the Welsh fans.
I also loved the free kick I scored against Andorra quite recently. We’d gone behind to a penalty that I still don’t think was a penalty, we were favourites, it was a horrendous pitch, they had literally had nobody up front and it was an amazing feeling to finally see them off.'
PHOTO: Getty
Real Madrid 4 Atlético Madrid 1, 2014 Uefa Champions League final Estadio da Luz, Lisbon, 24 May 2014
With ten minutes of extra-time remaining, the two Madrid clubs were level and headed for penalties. Suddenly, Atlético goalkeeper Thibaut Courtois spills a shot from Ángel di María and the ball loops towards the right side of the penalty area. Faced with just an open net and a prone defender, Bale stays calm to nod home the decisive goal.
Bale: "There had been one or two chances earlier in the game that I probably – well, definitely – should have scored from, so I was so thankful that this one went in! The ball really was quite high and I was quite tired at the time, so I thought "just jump and guide it, no power". I remember hanging in the air for what felt like ages and I made sure I just cushioned because I knew Courtois wasn’t really in the goal and I could head it over the defender. When it hit the back of the net it was relief more than anything else.
I watch it back now and I think how much my knee must have been killing me after because I slid so far celebrating! And then I can remember everyone just piling on top of me and the absolute chaos. My hair was getting pulled back and there were bodies everywhere! You're just so excited and pumped that you don't even care. Anything could be happening. Actually, when someone stands on your toe in a celebration pile-up: that's the worst. That's the most painful thing.
I was over the moon with it. The reason I came to Madrid was to win trophies and to win the biggest trophy of them all in my first season was a dream come true."
– Gareth Bale was speaking on behalf of Lucozade Sport. To find out more and view exclusive content visit lucozadesport.com or follow @LucozadeSport
