http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604282/s/442d1a4f/sc/24/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Ccycling0C114581830CCycling0Edoping0Ereport0Eexplained0Ethe0Ekey0Eissues0Eexamined0Bhtml/story01.htm
Cycling doping report explained: the key issues examined
By Tom Cary
6:00AM GMT 09 Mar 2015
What is CIRC?
The Cycling Independent Reform Commission was established by the UCI in January 2014, after Brian Cookson ousted the incumbent president Pat McQuaid the previous autumn on a ticket of reform and transparency. It was chaired by Dr. Dick Marty, a former Swiss State Prosecutor, and supported by two Vice-Chairs - Prof. Ulrich Haas, an expert in anti-doping rules and procedures and Mr. Peter Nicholson, a former military officer who specialises in criminal investigations. It undertook 174 face-to-face interviews and cost an estimated £3m to put together.
Cookson promised "uncomfortable reading". But how explosive is the report?
There is not a whole lot new in there, to be honest. No smoking guns. No new names thrown into the mix. The allegations of complicity against Hein Verbruggen and Pat McQuaid were well known and on the substantive point of corruption the commission found them innocent. Much of the report is simply a potted history of doping. The most astonishing claims are probably those relating to the alleged level of doping in the peloton now, claims that are sure to divide the sport.
In the spotlight: Former UCI president Pat McQuaid
Cycling report: Doping remains widespread
Cycling doping report: 10 things we learnt
Report does not show the true state of cycling
McQuaid defends presidency ahead of doping report
So did CIRC go deep enough?
Not for some people, who wanted names and corpses and sanctions. It is important to remember, though, the CIRC had no legal power to compel anyone to testify. Its mandate was merely to investigate the causes of doping, the UCI's handling of the issue, as well as to make recommendations for the future. It is for USADA and other national anti-doping bodies to decide on sanctions.
Still, systematic abuse of power and complicity from UCI management are pretty serious charges?
Yes, if this was Fifa rather than the UCI it is safe to say that findings of the CIRC would be deemed pretty explosive.
So what now?
Verbruggen's positions as an honorary member of the IOC and honorary president of the UCI are likely to come under review. Lance Armstrong is unlikely to have his lifetime ban reduced by USADA. Cookson for whom this report serves a useful purpose, distancing him from previous UCI regimes, showing his administration to be transparent, will now consider the recommendations of the panel.
What are CIRC's recommendations?
The highlights are probably to address the absence of night-time testing, which CIRC describes as a weakness, to get on top of the TUE issue, and to set up an independent whistleblower desk.
What about former dopers running teams like Bjarne Riis and Alexandre Vinokourov?
There is still a commitment on the part of Cookson to apply a fit and proper persons test to cycling, but it is fiendishly difficult to apply retrospectively given the number of former doped riders working in cycling. The report does advise the UCI to "investigate those individuals that it believes were involved in doping in the past, and make full use of the extended statute of limitations". No doubt Cookson will expand on this when he addresses the media in Switzerland on Monday.
