http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568364/s/448b1137/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ccricket0Cinternational0Cengland0C11481560A0CKevin0EPietersen0EI0Ewill0Edo0Eanything0Eto0Eget0Eback0Ein0Ethe0EEngland0Eteam0Bhtml/story01.htm
Kevin Pietersen: I will do anything to get back in the England team
By Nick Hoult
7:38PM GMT 18 Mar 2015
Comments
Kevin Pietersen says he will “do anything” to get back into the England team as he continues negotiations to give up his Indian Premier League deal. As revealed by The Daily Telegraph last week Pietersen wants to opt out of playing in the IPL for the Sunrisers Hyderabad and return to Surrey in a bid to try and force his way back into the England tram.
Speaking on BBC’s Test Match Special, Pietersen repeated his desire to play for England. He will fight for his place in the hope that regime change at the England and Wales Cricket Board will sweep away those who are opposed to him playing international cricket again.
Pietersen needs to repair his relationship with Alastair Cook
“I would love to get county runs,” he said. “If I can do anything that can help me get back into it for England then it’s something I want to do. I love playing for England. There’s a few things that need tinkering with, but I do want to make the right decision. I don’t know how it’s going to happen; I just have to wait and see.”
But later on Wednesday, James Whitaker, the national selector, did his best to close the door on Pietersen, saying he had “not been part of our discussions.” Whitaker stumbled under intense questioning about Pietersen as he clearly did not want to admit that he could play again while also being determined not to say definitively that his days at international level were over after Colin Graves, the incoming ECB chairman, said that in the future selectors would pick teams on form not personality.
Pietersen's book upset a lot of England players
“I know Colin very well, he is entitled to his opinion, but Kevin isn’t part of our plans,” Whitaker said. When pushed on Graves’s comments Whitaker contradicted himself, saying he had not spoken to the new chairman and then admitting: “I have had conversations with Colin and we have discussed our future selections and he has so far given me his backing.”
• Pietersen will do 'anything' to get back into England set-up • How KP could go from outcast to messiah • Downton must provide answers to keep his England job • Jonathan Liew's England XI for the 2019 Cricket World Cup • England player-by-player ratings from World Cup debacle
Alastair Cook, the England Test captain, said he was still hurt by Pietersen’s scathing criticism in his book published last October and that a return was highly unlikely. “There’s been a hell of a lot of stuff happened with his book and all that kind of stuff. It’s a long way back from that.”
Pietersen’s potential new colleague at Surrey, Kumar Sangakkara, said: “He will be fantastic anywhere he plays. I’m sure he’s looking forward to knocking on that England door.”
