http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568364/s/4486777a/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ccricket0Cinternational0Cengland0C114796930CAlastair0ECook0Eattacks0EECB0Efor0Esacking0Ehim0Eas0EEnglands0Eone0Eday0Ecaptain0Eand0Eclaims0Eit0Eled0Eto0EWorld0ECup0Edebacle0Bhtml/story01.htm
Alastair Cook attacks ECB for sacking him as England's one-day captain and claims it led to World Cup debacle
By Nick Hoult, Deputy Cricket Correspondent
11:37AM GMT 18 Mar 2015
Comments
Alastair Cook has criticised the ECB for sacking him as one-day captain and said the decision caused England’s disastrous World Cup campaign.
Cook's withering assessment heaps fresh pressure on Peter Moores, England's head coach, and managing director Paul Downton as it effectively blames them for provoking England's humiliating World Cup exit.
Cook, speaking in Abu Dhabi where he is preparing to play for the MCC, said the decision to sack him so close to the tournament in December undid three years of good work and “hindsight” has proved it was the wrong call. He said the players looked “shellshocked” after the two defeats to Australia and New Zealand and needed leadership to help them recover.

“I’m always going to have a slightly biased view on that. I was there for three and a half years trying to do a job. We got to No 1 in the world with a full strength side and got to the final of the Champions Trophy,” he said. “There were things I can be very proud of. As any captain will tell you, leading your country in a World Cup is a huge honour and one that can never be taken lightly. I was very much looking forward to that. I understand the pressure I was under. I wasn’t scoring the runs I should, or could, have been scoring, so I understand that my position was in jeopardy. I said at the end of Sri Lanka that if there was a change, I couldn’t complain because I hadn’t scored the runs.
“But I think you saw in Australia the dangers of making such a big decision so close to the tournament. I don’t know what’s gone on on that tour, and I can only speak from watching a little bit from afar, but it did look like the lads were shell shocked from the first two games. That’s when you need real leadership to help steer you through that. Whether I would have made a difference, I don’t know. But I was fully confident we would get out of our group, and from there, you’ve got to win three games in a row - that’s how this World Cup has worked.
Better times: Peter Moores (left) and Cook in 2014 Photo: ACTION IMAGES
“I can’t speak about what’s gone on there in depth, but you always back yourself, and I would have loved to have had the opportunity that was taken away from me. The selectors made that decision because they thought it was the best for English cricket. Hindsight has probably proved them wrong, but now it’s very easy to say that.”
Cook also said the World Cup shambles has “shattered” confidence within the England team which had been built up during last summer when they beat India 3-1 by winning three successive Test matches.
“It was in a good place. I wouldn’t say all of it [confidence] has been, but a hell of a lot of it has been.You have to remember that it is a different format and you get a change, but all teams are grouped under the same English cricket umbrella, and we can’t be naive enough to think that it’s not. We have a repairing job to do, and the only way of doing that is by playing some good cricket and start winning. We built that momentum a little bit after the Ashes 14 or 15 months ago with a slightly younger side, including the likes of Gary Ballance and Joe Root. There was a good feel good factor about the English game in the middle of August after the Test matches. Since then, it’s been tough going. We’ve got to rebuild again.”
No way back: Cook (left) believes Kevin Pietersen will not play for England again Photo: ACTION IMAGES
Despite his criticisms of the World Cup campaign, Cook does believe that Moores is the right man to take the team forward.
"As always in this day and age - we talk about football managers and it's coming into cricket now, it's a results-driven business," he said. "There's no doubt about it, there's pressure on him. There's pressure on all of us. All I can say is that I've really, really enjoyed working with Peter. In my eyes, he's a fantastic coach who needs a bit of luck for that to come out. I enjoy working with him and the lads do. I hope he stays and gets the opportunity to turn it round. I've only got good things to say about him."
Cook shut the door on a return for Kevin Pietersen saying he believes it is “highly unlikely” he can play for England again after writing his highly critical autobiography last year. Cook, as Test skipper, would have to agree to a return for Pietersen who is currently in the process of trying to wriggle out of a an IPL deal to play county cricket in a bid to win his England place back.
“I think it’s very unlikely,” he said about a Pietersen return. “There’s been a hell of a lot of stuff happened with his book and all that kind of stuff. It’s a long way back from that.”
WATCH: Sachin Tendulkar's memories of the Cricket World Cup 2011 final

