http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568364/s/447b7c76/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ccricket0C114769290CKevin0EPietersen0Esays0EEngland0Emust0Erecreate0Ethe0Erelaxed0Eatmosphere0Eof0EAustralia0Esquad0Bhtml/story01.htm
Kevin Pietersen says England must recreate the relaxed atmosphere of Australia squad
By Scyld Berry, Cricket Correspondent, Sydney
10:40AM GMT 17 Mar 2015
Comments
Kevin Pietersen has compared the happy atmosphere which Australia’s coach Darren Lehmann has fostered with the England dressing-room, and declared that his best days are not behind him.
Speaking in Sydney on Back Page Live on Fox Sports, Pietersen made an implicit criticism of the regime of England's head coach Peter Moores when he said: “They (England) need to get a much more relaxed atmosphere.
"What you need to do – and I think you need to really get this in sporting teams now, which I think Boof (Darren Lehmann) has done – is create a family home atmosphere in that little bubble, so when you go into that bubble, you love that bubble, and you want to be in that bubble – and it’s the most relaxed, no-pressure environment.
- Kevin Pietersen ready to play county cricket to secure England return
“Obviously you’ve got pressure because you’ve got to go on the sports field, and if you don’t perform you’re out,” Pietersen added.
Asked for his reaction to England’s exit from the World Cup before the quarter-final stage, Pietersen replied: “I’ve been really sad since the middle of last year. The team wasn’t performing as well as I would have loved to see them performing because I’ve got so many good buddies in that side that when they lose it hurts me.
Pietersen says his best days are still ahead of him (Credit: REX FEATURES)
“I had my issues with an ex-coach (Andy Flower), with the board members or the top of the board, but they don’t have anything to do with the actual team and my buddies.
“When they don’t do well, and I see guys like (Steven) Finny coming back and doing really well, then not so doing well and getting smashed all over Eden Park, it hurts me. When Ravi Bopara plays all the one-day games leading up to the first game of the World Cup against Australia and that night gets dropped, it hurts me because they are my buddies.
Surrey are the favourites to sign Pietersen if he returns to county cricket (ACTION IMAGES)
“The previous board let themselves down, saying the team atmosphere…(saying) they just need good blokes in the dressing-room, whereas I know teams around the world at the moment, there’s blokes who can’t stand each other. I know the greatest Australian side, there were blokes in it who couldn’t stand each other, but when you go over the line you perform and you do the business because that’s your job.
- How KP could go from outcast to messiah
“I don’t think my best days are behind me. I thought I batted as well as I’ve ever batted in my career in Australia a few months ago. I think that’s nonsense, I reckon I’ve still got quite a few Test hundreds in me.”
Pietersen went on to congratulate the Australian players and public on how they dealt with the death of Phil Hughes last November. He also expressed his support of Shane Watson who had been dropped by Australia’s selectors earlier in this World Cup – “I’ve been very vocal in support of Watto” – and, when shown footage of Ireland’s John Mooney hitting himself in the throat when playing a ramp-shot against Pakistan, declared that he had never played the ramp-shot himself.
