http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568364/s/446aff5d/sc/7/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ccricket0Cinternational0Cengland0C114734740CPaul0EDownton0Emust0Eprovide0Eanswers0Eto0Ekeep0Ehis0Ejob0Erunning0Ethe0EEngland0Eteam0Bhtml/story01.htm
Paul Downton must provide answers to keep his job running the England team
By Nick Hoult, Deputy Cricket Correspondent
10:00PM GMT 15 Mar 2015
Comments
The review of England’s World Cup exit will be led by the England & Wales Cricket Board’s new chief executive Tom Harrison with Paul Downton set to face tough questions over the team’s disastrous campaign.
Last week Downton said publicly he had the full support of Harrison and Colin Graves, the chairman elect of the ECB, but a thorough review of the World Cup campaign will take place this week with sources indicating that positions could be on the line if satisfactory explanations and are not forthcoming, as would be expected after a dismal showing in a major tournament.
It is not just Downton, the managing director, who faces questions but also Peter Moores, the head coach. Both have been criticised by a string of former England players and captains for the team’s World Cup performance which included just two wins against minnows Scotland and Afghanistan.
Downton was not responsible for decisions made in Australia and New Zealand that directly influenced what happened on the field, that was down to Moores, but will have to deliver a convincing plan for the future to ensure England’s one-day cricket improves.
If Moores is sacked then Downton’s position would be untenable having reappointed him only 18 months ago as England’s head coach. But Moores is more likely to survive if Downton leaves the ECB. If Downton goes, there is the possibility a replacement managing director may not be appointed.

Peter Moores is more likely to keep his job if Paul Downton loses his (Getty Images)
Harrison and Graves are conducting a streamlining exercise at the ECB as they look to cut costs and trim the decision making process, and may see the managing director’s role as one that can be lost. The role was created in the wake of the 5-0 Ashes loss in 2006-07 and Downton replaced Hugh Morris in January of last year after more than 20 years not working in the professional game.
Since then he has presided over a turbulent period in English cricket with the handling of the Kevin Pietersen sacking and the subsequent unseemly public relations battle badly damaging the board’s image.
Pietersen is expecting to be given permission by the BCCI to pull out of his IPL deal this week and re-sign for Surrey in a bid to win back his England place. If that happens he will return to cricket in the second division of the County Championship in April just as England play a Test series in the West Indies.
Downton’s position was undermined earlier this month when Graves said publicly that Pietersen would be picked on runs and not history if he committed to playing county cricket again.
It was a sign that the new hierarchy at the ECB were not happy with how the Pietersen saga had been handled under Downton and Giles Clarke, the outgoing chairman.
Graves was the deputy chairman of the ECB when the Pietersen decision was made and Downton appointed but the board was run by Clarke. Graves now intends to run the board his way. It was his intervention on the Pietersen issue that has completely changed the landscape even if the player remains a long way off winning back his England place.

Colin Graves was deputy chairman of the ECB when the Kevin Pietersen decsion was taken (Getty Images)
For Harrison this is his first crisis to manage. He has only been in position for six weeks and since arriving has started work on delivering a plan for the future to present to Graves and the board for approval later this year.
It is down to Harrison to design a workable English Premier League Twenty20 tournament to be launched in 2017 and somehow find a way to give a cricket a presence on terrestrial television.
The day after England’s exit from the World Cup Downton claimed to have the full support of Graves and Harrison and it appeared the managing director would spearhead the review. But now it appears the review will begin with Harrison seeking answers from Downton.
“Let’s not fudge around it everybody wants the England cricket side to improve,” said Downton last week. “We’re trying desperately hard to drive that forward. There are no easy answers or quick fixes. They’ve been very supportive up until this point. I’m not saying everybody’s job is safe and I’m not saying that everybody is going to be sacked.”
This week Moores and the selectors will pick the squad for the West Indies tour, which is expected to be named on Wednesday.
Durham seamer Mark Wood is in line for his first England call up after a good Lions tour with a return for Jonathan Trott also a strong possibility.
Moeen Ali’s side strain is not expected to rule him out of the trip while England are also monitoring Chris Woakes’ foot injury. He had scans last week in Australia but England want him to be assessed again by their own medical staff before making a decision on whether he can be selected for the West Indies tour.
England were considering resting Joe Root for the tour but will now pick a full strength squad with a series victory now vital for those in charge of the set up.
