http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568364/s/44643c6f/sc/40/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ccricket0Ckevinpietersen0C114725280CHow0EKevin0EPietersen0Ecould0Ego0Efrom0Eoutcast0Eto0EEngland0Emessiah0Bhtml/story01.htm
Kevin Pietersen - from outcast to England messiah?
By Scyld Berry, Cricket Correspondent
6:28PM GMT 14 Mar 2015
Comments
KP or not KP? That is the question that will give Colin Graves, the incoming chairman of the England and Wales Cricket Board, as much angst as anything felt by Hamlet, following Kevin Pietersen’s indication he will give up the Indian Premier League and return to county cricket in his bid to regain an England place.
Pietersen was excluded permanently from the England team after the last Ashes series ended 5-0 to Australia. There was “no smoking gun” according to the ECB, but a long list of minor indiscretions resulted in the appearance in front of a firing squad of England’s highest ever run-scorer across all formats.
No amnesty for Pietersen was conceivable last year. He did not make enough runs in his various T20 assignations, while England’s young bucks, such as Joe Root and Gary Ballance did, so he was heading into history. In addition, the ECB’s outgoing chairman, Giles Clarke, had been all in favour of the life ban which England’s managing director, Paul Downton, imposed on Pietersen.
Since Christmas, however, the wind has veered. Pietersen, less troubled by his knees after a fallow summer, scored the second most runs in Australia’s Big Bash with his former panache.
Pietersen scored the second most runs in Australia's Big Bash (GETTY IMAGES)
England’s batsmen meanwhile, if not the whole team, went through the World Cup in a state close to paralysis and duly left on the first plane home.
At the top there has also been this crucial change. Clarke has moved to international pastures as the ECB’s first president, leaving Graves in charge of the domestic game. Clarke is a patrician, genially disposed to all who recognise him as top dog: in other words, similar to Pietersen.
Like poles repulse, and repulse they did, especially after Clarke presented Pietersen with a silver cap to mark his 100th England Test match — emblazoned with the name of ‘Pieterson’.
Graves, by contrast, is a plain-speaking Yorkshireman. The founder of Costcutter, Graves can be expected to believe in the free and open market; and now that Pietersen is back on the market, the ultimate decision may boil down to whether Pietersen’s comeback is worth the turmoil bound to ensue.
Colin Graves believes if Pietersen is scoring runs, he should be picked (PA)
For a start, will Downton’s position as managing director be tenable if Pietersen represents England again? Dropping Pietersen in perpetuity was Downton’s first major act, his mission statement: the stables must be cleansed and Alastair Cook will launch a new era. But Downton could point to Graves and argue that he is carrying out his new master’s order, awkward though his relationship with Pietersen would be.
Other obstacles have to be overcome before Pietersen makes a comeback for England, over and above scoring first-class runs, probably for Surrey. Pietersen’s character has always tended to make most people love or loathe him (not because he is evil or malicious, but because he is oblivious to his effect upon others); and his autobiography, published last October, further hardened positions.
• Pietersen: I would play under Moores again • Pietersen to turn back on IPL to secure Test return • Comment: KP will bring fun back to dismal England era
In his book, Pietersen burnt almost as many bridges as Napoleon in his retreat from Moscow. Andy Flower may have been the most successful coach England have had, but winning three consecutive Ashes and England’s only global tournament did not rate a mention.
Flower was “the Mood Hoover” who did nothing to lighten the tone of England’s dressing-room, although lightening it during a whitewash in Australia might be beyond all the Marx brothers combined; and he permitted a clique, consisting mainly of England’s senior bowlers, to bully the rest of the team.
Pietersen was critical of the Andy Flower regime (PA)
Matt Prior was no less culpable in Pietersen’s eyes. He devotes a whole chapter to England’s wicketkeeper or, because he believes Prior’s ego is so big, “the Big Cheese”. Pietersen called him: “a Dairylea triangle thinking he was Brie.” As with Clarke, an element of like poles repulsing may be detected.
Fortunately for Pietersen, his two prime targets have moved on. Flower, after resigning as England’s head coach last January, is now based at Loughborough; Prior, while not officially retired, is barely able to walk after Achilles injuries and, besides, Jos Buttler would have to suffer a major mishap for any vacancy to arise. But that still leaves two more of Pietersen’s targets in the England dressing-room: the current head coach, Peter Moores, and Stuart Broad.
“Where Duncan [Fletcher] had given us freedom, Moores was tapping on our heads like a woodpecker all day, every day,” Pietersen wrote.
“He loves statistics, and would always go on about them.”
Pietersen and Peter Moores have never seen eye to eye (GETTY IMAGES)
Again, Moores was “in your ear setting silly little targets every day”. These criticisms apply to Moores’s first stint as England’s head coach, when Pietersen was the captain until both were sacked in January 2009.
Moores, in his second tenure, has undoubtedly learned from this mistake: criticisms now centre on what he does, not on how he does it. Pietersen told Fox Sports, while commentating on Australia’s match against Scotland, that he was ready to play again under Moores, though not as captain. These warmer feelings, however, might not be reciprocated.
Broad was implicated in the spoof KPgenius twitter account which caused Pietersen such a surprising amount of anguish in 2012. “I’m not sure if Broad is the brightest tool in the box,” Pietersen commented. Another bridge to be mended before it can be crossed.
Pietersen and Stuart Broad (left) will need to patch up their differences (PA)
But at least Pietersen stopped short of lambasting Cook: “I feel sorry for him,” he said of his captain at one point, though he implies a certain weakness or irresolution. Pietersen might just about be able to repair his bridge with James Whitaker, the chairman of England’s selectors. “I had a little history with Whitaker,” Pietersen wrote. He has a lot more now.
Supposing all these personality clashes can be sorted out, the next question is whether Pietersen’s return to the England side would strengthen the team in the various formats. Assuming he does score plenty of red-ball runs for Surrey in early season — a task that will be made much easier if he plays for Surrey with Kumar Sangakkara batting at No 3 — whom would he replace in England’s Test side?
No vacancy at numbers three, four and five: Ballance, Ian Bell and Root hold those places down, followed by Moeen Ali and Buttler, who are no less secure. This leaves the number two position, which Sam Robson did not nail down last summer; neither did Adam Lyth or Alex Lees on the England Lions tour of South Africa. At this stage Jonathan Trott seems pencilled in to return in the West Indies next month, as an opener for the first time in his career.

But as we know from the last Ashes series, a great fast bowler can wreck all the opposition’s plans and fast-track change. If Mitchell Johnson, backed by Ryan Harris, were to run through England in the first Test or two of this summer’s Ashes, it would be hard to resist a veteran who will only just have turned 35, and who has scored four Test centuries against Australia, including the most vivid ever made for England, his 158 at the Oval that clinched the Ashes of 2005.
When the enemy is at the gate perspectives change, and history shows how England have tried every expedient to defeat Australia at home. If England’s batsmen are being gunned down as they were last winter, a batsman who can stand up and counterattack — for all his faults and past indiscretions — would be hailed as messiah.
