http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568364/s/4462c8ce/sc/20/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ccricket0Ckevinpietersen0C114722990CKevin0EPietersen0EI0Ewould0Eplay0Efor0EEngland0Eunder0EPeter0EMoores0Bhtml/story01.htm
Kevin Pietersen: I would play for England under Peter Moores
By Scyld Berry
12:57PM GMT 14 Mar 2015
Comments
Kevin Pietersen announced he is ready to play under England’s head coach Peter Moores while, in almost the same breath, offering a trenchant criticism of Moores’s methods during the World Cup, which ended for England in failing to qualify for the quarter-finals.
Pietersen and Moores fell out when working as captain and coach in 2008 - a dispute that led to both of them losing their jobs.
But Pietersen has said that despite their past difficulties he would not need England to replace their coach for him to make an unlikely return to the side.
Pietersen, who is England's top run scorer across all three formats, confirmed to Fox Sports in Australia the .

Tomorrow's back page...#626 #185 pic.twitter.com/j0btPeyd4u
Commentating on Australia’s match against Scotland for Fox Sports, Pietersen said: “There’s been a lot of players who don’t know where they are. You’ve got to breed confidence in your players.
"The night before the start of the World Cup when you’re playing Australia at the MCG – 95,000 people – you do not make big changes to your squad.
“And I heard the coach come out and say ‘we don’t have a settled side’. Well, mate, you played six months of one-day cricket before that game, just even if you don’t think you’ve got a settled squad, you don’t go and tell the whole world you don’t have a settled squad.
Man in charge: Peter Moores is in his second stint as England coach
“You don’t go and swap your number three and put him to number six [James Taylor]. You drop a bloke who has played for six months [Ravi Bopara], you don’t do that to a squad.
"You at least show some sort of unity in terms of your selection. Before the biggest game of the tournament you don’t go and make big changes.”
Asked his opinion of Moores, who has been widely criticised for his reliance on statistics and data, Pietersen replied: “Look, I haven’t worked with Mooresy since 2008.
"Clearly I had my issues, which were pretty similar, but I can’t really comment on what’s going on. But it does strike up worries if you’re talking up data when you’re trying to explain losing.”
Then asked whether he was prepared to represent England again under Moores, Pietersen said: “Absolutely. I said when I finished the captaincy, I can go back and play.
"I can’t captain because I don’t think our relationship’s great, but I’ve played under Andy Flower and I probably had a pretty worse relationship with Flower than I did with Moores.”
Creative spark: Kevin Pietersen is the master of invention, such as the reverse sweep
The batsman, who was sacked by England after the Ashes whitewash last year, has been handed a lifeline by Colin Graves, the incoming chairman of the England and Wales Cricket Board, who last month challenged him to return to county cricket and prove he was worth a place.
Pietersen confirmed his intentions to Fox Sports, where he has started work as pundit on the World Cup.
Asked if he planned to play county cricket, he said: "That's what I'm looking at at the moment.
"There will be a change of scenery at board level with the ECB and I've always expressed my desire to play for England again if I get the opportunity.
"It seems encouraging but I've obviously got a few steps that I've got to climb. It just makes perfect sense to explore different things - that's what I'm doing.
"I've still got more decisions to make - it's weekend now so nobody will be picking up their phones, but [Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday] will be very exciting, hopefully."
