http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568364/s/446211b5/sc/24/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cfinance0Cpersonalfinance0Cfameandfortune0C11470A0A80A0CDavid0EGower0ELosing0E50A0A0A0A0Eon0Ea0Egolf0Ecourse0Ewas0Ean0Einvestment0Elesson0Bhtml/story01.htm
David Gower: 'Losing £50,000 on a golf course was an investment lesson'
By Donna Ferguson
12:12PM GMT 14 Mar 2015
Comments
David Gower OBE is a former captain of the England cricket team and a cricket commentator for Sky. Now 57, he lives in Hampshire with his wife, Thorunn, and has two daughters.
How did your childhood influence your attitude towards money?
Probably not at all. I was brought up in Dar es Salaam, in East Africa, for the first six years of my life. My father was in a senior position in the British colonial administration there. We had staff, cooks and gardeners and lived in a house near a golf course. The staff accommodation was basically huts at the back. But the children who lived there were my friends and I used to go and play with them. It was all very free and easy, and sociable. I didn’t think about money – it was not a concept for me.
Would you say you had a privileged upbringing?
Yes – but not over privileged. Our lifestyle was definitively middle class. After we returned to Britain, I attended boarding school from the age of eight at King’s [School,] Canterbury, but paying for my schooling meant there weren’t that many overseas trips, for example. The overriding message was to live within one’s means. One of the things that would frighten me today would be an excessive amount of debt. We bought our family home for £392,000 in 1991, with a 50pc mortgage, and I got rid of it as soon as I could.
Phil Vickery: 'I earned £12,000 a year while I played for England'
Bez: 'Bankrupted twice, I'll never be a saver'
Gethin Jones: 'Blue Peter paid just £27,000 a year'
Peter Duncan: 'My acting income has never exceeded £100,000'
What was your first job and how much did it pay?
Playing for Leicestershire as a junior professional in 1975. I was 18, all I had to do was play cricket, and I was paid £25 a week. It was wonderful.
What was your first big pay cheque from cricket?
I was paid £1,000 for the first Test match I played, in 1978. Kerry Packer had just founded the World Series in Australia [in 1977] and that was the first time that it had been suggested that international cricketers might be paid more than a couple of quid. So I was paid five times what the fee had been the previous year. It was the start of “the cricket revolution”, when cricket boards and players started to realise there was money to be made from the sport.

How did life change as the fees went up?
I was never paid extravagantly by Leicestershire and in the early days of my county career, if I was at an away game and felt like a drink, all I could afford was the cheapest bottle of wine on any hotel wine list. But as Test match money started to come in, I could up the quality of a bottle of wine of an evening.
Eventually, when my career took off, I could afford to buy some interesting wines. In the Eighties I bought some 1983 First Growths – Mouton Rothschild, Margaux, that sort of thing. It was an extravagance at the time with a hint of investment. I don’t remember how much I paid for them, but they’re [worth] about £5,000 a case now.
What was your first big purchase?
My first original David Shepherd painting, Rhino in the Kaokoveld, for £22,000. I bought prints before that, and I eventually had enough money, in the mid-Eighties, to buy the real thing. I’d guess it would be worth £40,000 or £50,000 now.
Having bought the painting, I got to meet the artist. I became a patron of his foundation, the David Shepherd Wildlife Foundation, and when I got married, David painted us a little elephant as a wedding present.
What is the best wage you have ever earned?
Presenting the cricket with Sky – not that I want to divulge the amount, but you could say it’s a six-figure sum per year. Of course, if I was my own equivalent nowadays in the England team, then I’d be earning a lot more – probably two or three times as much as I do now. But that’s the way the game has moved on, which is as it should be.
Who pays better: Sky or the BBC?
When I left the BBC and went full-time to Sky, there was a lift in salary. But it depends. If you look at, say, Gary Lineker and BBC and football, as opposed to me and Sky and cricket, trust me there’s a big difference. Ian Botham – one of our biggest names in the cricket department at Sky – will be on a sizeable chunk from Sky because of his reputation and who he is. All I can say is that I’m very happy with the deal I’ve got.
Worst money mistake you’ve ever made?
I once invested £50,000 in a syndicate that wanted to build a golf course and country club in Belgium. The plans looked good and the course was designed by one of the most famous names in golf. But it all went t--- up and I lost the £50,000. It taught me to stick to what I know.
Spender or a saver?
A bit of both. It’s nice to eat out, enjoy a good bottle of wine and go on holiday. I’ve put my two daughters through private school for 10 years each, and a private education costs an awful lot of money.
But I’m a saver as well – I’ve put money away in pension schemes, and my wife and I use up our maximum allowances for stocks and shares Isas every year.
What’s the most expensive thing you’ve ever bought (apart from property)?
My current car, which is a Jaguar XKR. It probably cost £65,000. It’s a beautiful car, I love it.
Do you invest in property?
Yes. I’ve invested in a couple of flats in London which I’ve never seen. They are ticking over nicely. I also have a pied-à-terre in London, which I bought as an investment and rented out for 10 years, but I need it now and my daughters love it when we go to town.
How do you feel about investing in shares?
I don’t have the expertise or the concentration to do it off my own bat. I’ve had very good advice over the years from my financial adviser. Although five years ago, I was going: hang on, how much have we lost today? But one has to take comfort in the fact that historical trends have always been in the right direction.
What have you invested in over the years?
I made a foray into gold at just the wrong moment two years ago. I put in enough to make it worth it. I’m £10,000 down, and it’s probably down 20pc from when I bought it.
I also have an investment which relies on the demand for data protection going up and the relevant company doing well. Logically, there’s a huge demand for data and data protection – I’m still waiting to see it take off.
If you were chancellor, what economic policies would you change?
I don’t get inheritance tax so I’d do my best to get rid of that. I can’t really see why the wealth that’s accumulated by successful hard work should be taxed again, and I sympathise with those who are looking after our nation’s heritage. As for income tax, thresholds coming up for lower-income earners is fair I think, and the 40pc or 45pc rate we pay as designated higher earners is plenty. Every time you hear a potential Labour government threatening to send it back up to 50pc again, it’s an insidious invasion into one’s work. I believe that reasonable rates of tax encourage people just to pay their tax and get on with life. Abnormally high rates of tax are counterproductive.
You’re 57. Any plans to retire?
No. Sky looks after you very nicely. And I love doing what I do.
 David Gower is a patron of World Land Trust, an international conservation charity that raises funds to save rainforest and other wildlife habitats. Find out more and make a donation at .
• For money saving tips, tricks and ideas, sign up to our weekly newsletter by entering your email here
