http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568364/s/44602989/sc/8/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ccricket0Ckevinpietersen0C114718540CKevin0EPietersen0Ewill0Ebring0Ethe0Efun0Eback0Eto0EEngland0Ein0Ewhat0Ehas0Ebeen0Ea0Edismal0Eera0Eof0Efear0Eand0Econservatism0Bhtml/story01.htm
Kevin Pietersen will bring the fun back to England in what has been a dismal era of fear and conservatism
By Simon Briggs
11:00PM GMT 13 Mar 2015
Comments
There is one undeniable fact about Kevin Pietersen. He makes life interesting. And that is a valuable currency when England have become so predictable: a team still playing in sepia when the rest of the world have upgraded to HD.
Until he was thrown overboard a year ago, Pietersen was the one flair player amid the clones: a man born to introduce cats to pigeons, whether on the pitch or in passionate bar-room debates. He can barely take a step without dividing opinion. With any luck, he could yet bring the fun back to what has been a dismal era of fear and conservatism.
• Exclusive - KP poised to turn back on IPL to secure Test return
One of the England and Wales Cricket Board’s original reasons for sacking Pietersen a year ago, rather than just dropping him as they would have anyone else, was to avoid a constant distraction from their absent friend.
Peter Moores and Alastair Cook did not want to be checking on the scorecards from the Oval all the time, nor answering questions about England’s Ashes scapegoat. And they probably felt that the new-look middle-order needed to bed down without a 6ft 4in shadow looming over them.
Pietersen knows what it takes to take on the Aussies (GETTY IMAGES)
There is a logic there, but it is one that ignores the concept of sport as entertainment. Pietersen on his own evokes more fascination than the rest of the team put together. Thousands of fans must have booked their tickets in the hope of a last-minute return to favour.
Remarkably, despite all Paul Downton’s talk of burned bridges, that rapprochement is now feasible again. Moores’s England have failed to convince many observers that they are up to winning back the Ashes without their best batsman. Most importantly, they have failed to convince Colin Graves, the new ECB chairman, whose interview on BBC Radio Five Live’s Sportsweek programme triggered this latest plot twist a fortnight ago.

There was a sense that morning that Graves could have been calling Pietersen’s bluff. “Your move,” he was saying. “If you won’t swap Twenty20 pyjamas for whites in April, then even Piers Morgan will have to stop banging on about you.”
Well, Pietersen has made his answer. He has put his money down on the table – a substantial sum, for by turning his back on the Indian Premier League he stands to lose at least £205,000 – and backed himself to win back a Test berth by the beginning of July.
Like many characters who were almost killed off (is Gandalf the model here, or Freddy Krueger?) he returns to the story as an even more powerful force.
Pietersen is an Ashes winner (GETTY IMAGES)
However compelling he would have been in whites last summer – and we never found out, because his most recent first-class match was the dismal Sydney Test of January 2014 – he will command even more attention after the score-settling of his angry autobiography, and the sheer volume of debate that followed.
Whether he succeeds or fails, his performances in county cricket will create a second narrative to run alongside the England results this summer. If the rest of his career is any guide, it will be both a cliffhanger and a conspiracy thriller.
Will his batting still be as lethal as it once was? As he approaches his 35th birthday, no one really knows, probably not even the man himself. But it should be fascinating finding out, just as Ian Botham’s late matches always retained a frisson of excitement.
In terms of sustained impact, Pietersen probably stands in second place behind Botham in the all-time list of England players. They share the same disregard for niceties, and the same unshakable self-belief. Both possess an aura that would put many lesser players in a funk.
Pietersen has scored tons all over the world... just look at his tattoo (INSTAGRAM)
Even when Botham was pottering in off half-a-dozen paces, you never knew what conjuring trick he would produce next. Just as, even now, it does not matter what form Pietersen is in, he remains the man whose wicket the opposition want most.
He is also a man who provokes strong reactions. In November, the biggest crowd of the London Sportswriting Festival at Lord’s came to debate the motion “Kevin Pietersen: Saint or Sinner.” And while a straw poll of the audience suggested a roughly even split, it was noticeable that nobody changed their mind over the course of the session.
Perhaps this is a final chance for Pietersen to achieve redemption: to show that he is still a world-class player, and not the world-class pain that some would have you believe.
The Australians will no doubt derive plenty of amusement from the renewed uncertainty over his future. But if he can force his way back into the England team, and help them reverse the grim results of the last Ashes tour, it will be time to dust off Graham Gooch’s immortal line to Botham: “Who writes your scripts?”
