http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568364/s/445ae5bf/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Ccricket0Cinternational0Cengland0C114692140CEngland0Ebow0Eout0Eof0EWorld0ECup0Ewith0Eeasy0Evictory0Eover0EAfghanistan0Bhtml/story01.htm
England bow out of World Cup with easy victory over Afghanistan
By Nick Hoult, Deputy Cricket Correspondent, in Sydney
9:00PM GMT 13 Mar 2015
Comments
England’s worst World Cup ended with victory over Afghanistan and captain Eoin Morgan insisting he had “no regrets” despite what was widely viewed as a disastrous campaign.
After his side won their final group game by nine wickets via the Duckworth-Lewis calcuation, Morgan said he believed this set of players deserve to be given another opportunity.
The moments after the hollow victory – which saw England finish on 101-1, 10 runs shy of their target – were Morgan’s final chance at this tournament to admit his side’s failings but he denied England have not been adventurous enough and defended coach Peter Moores from criticism.
Flag day: Afghanistan supporters cheer on their batsmen in Sydney Photo: AP
“There are no regrets. Absolutely not,” he said. “We have given it everything, Certainly I have myself. Have we been adventurous enough? We have when we have earned the right to be adventurous. But when we have had bad days we have not been able to afford to be adventurous.
“The things that have let us down at this World Cup have been basic stuff and that has put a huge microscope under the fact when we have performed well we have done reasonably well and when we have been poor we have been really poor.”
England were the No 1 seeds for this World Cup – they were the world’s top-ranked team when the groups were drawn – and the tournament is heavily stacked in the favour of the big nations proceeding to the next round, but they limped out of it on a damp night in Sydney with only wins over Scotland and Afghanistan.
Their brand of cricket has been outdated and outmoded for the modern era but either Morgan was being loyal to his players by sticking to the first principle of his media training – to never admit a negative – or the delusion around England’s one-day cricket is embedded within the team itself.

The next four-year cycle to the 2019 World Cup begins as England arrive home on Sunday when the ECB will start yet another review. A new breed of players should get their chance now with Ian Bell’s 52 from 55 balls against this Afghan attack surely his final input in one-day cricket. A fine Test player, he needs to concentrate on that form of game and allow Alex Hales and Moeen Ali, two players equipped with the high octane strokeplay required nowadays, to open the batting.
James Anderson swung the ball at will after Morgan won the toss but he too may well have appeared in his last one day match. Like Bell, he still has time left in Test cricket but it is time for rebuilding and new blood in this format even if the captain is happy for nothing to change.
Morgan hopes to still be in charge against New Zealand in June and is unlikely to lose his job over this World Cup having not had enough time to change the team but needs to wake up and let reality sink in.
“There is going to be a review over the next couple of weeks. I can’t determine whether I will be captain,” he said. “But the hunger is still there to do it, absolutely. I have learned a lot throughout this tournament particularly when things have not gone so well. Then you learn a lot about yourself and the team and things like that moving forward are crucial.
It's a wash-out: A steward appeared glum as the rain poured down Photo: GETTY IMAGES
Looking ahead the personnel we have are the right personnel. It is important to recognise we have not clicked or had guys in form.” Morgan said he had “no idea’ if senior players in this squad will be retiring from one day cricket. “We have not guys coming towards the end of their careers and I think we have the right calibre of squad,” he said.
“Guys on the outside need to be banging down the door. It is an easy thing to sit here while we are not doing well and say that somebody outside the squad is better suited. We considered everybody when we selected the squad and I still believe we had the right group of players here.” England at least avoided the ignominy of defeat against Afghanistan. They bowled well in swinging conditions and eased to their target. Showers rolled over the SCG reducing the game with Afghanistan’s innings cut short on 111 for seven with Afghanistan batters unequipped to cope with a swinging and seaming ball. To wickets for Chris Jordan earned him the man of the match award and the Duckworth-Lewis rejigged England’s target to 101 from 25 overs. Alex Hales swatted a couple of sixes and was dropped twice before edging behind.
Bell had a net out in the middle and England had won with seven overs to spare but the ground was virtually empty providing a fitting stage for a limp World Cup campaign to end.
