http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569413/s/4112587f/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Carsenal0C11270A1150CArsene0EWenger0EFrench0EFA0Eshould0Epick0EThierry0EHenry0Efor0EFrance0Ev0EBrazil0Efriendly0Eas0Ea0Ethank0Eyou0Efor0Ehis0Eservices0Bhtml/story01.htm
Arsene Wenger: French FA should pick Thierry Henry for France v Brazil friendly as a thank you for his services
By Jeremy Wilson
11:12AM GMT 03 Dec 2014
Comments
Arsene Wenger has called on the France Football Federation to let Thierry Henry end his glorious playing career with a farewell international for France against Brazil next March.
Henry announced on Monday that he would not be extending his contract with the New York Red Bulls and, with options both in punditry and coaching, is expected to retire as a player.
Wenger gave Henry his senior debut as a 17-year-old at Monaco and now wants to see his protégé's career end by appearing in the friendly match against Brazil next March.
Henry won the World Cup and European Championship with France and is his country's all-time record goalscorer. Wenger was unhappy at how the French Football Federation handled all the fall-out from Henry's handball in the play-off win against the Republic of Ireland for the 2010 World Cup - there is a suggestion that Henry felt isolated - and believes that they owe him one final chance to say goodbye to the French public.
Asked about whether Henry should play against Brazil next Spring, Wenger said: "I think that is the minimum the French federation can do after what happened with Ireland in the qualifiers. The situation was not handled too well by the federation. I don't think the feeling between Henry and the federation was good at the time and I think they owe him that. I hope he will get that and the honour he deserves."
Petit: French are smug, untruthful and hypocritical
Arsenal's injury headache
Arsenal v Southampton: preview
Wenger: Title within three years
Wenger texted Henry on Tuesday to congratulate him on his career and reaching 20 years as a professional player.
"What I understand is that he wants to reflect for a while on how he wants to go into his next life," said Wenger. "The only thing I would like to say is that I made him start at the age of 17 in Monaco. He is today 37 so he had 20 years of competitive football and that deserves high respect and congratulations, not only on what he achieved but also on his exemplary attitude and his focus on football."
Henry has stressed that his next chapter after playing will still be in football.
"One thing is certain: I will stay in football, as a coach, a consultant or executive," said Henry. "We will see. The second certainty is that I would love to see Arsenal win the Champions League. Whether that is from near or far does not depend on me but it is sure I'd like to help. This is my club and, as a player, I have not been able to give them the Champions League."
Asked about his likely managerial approach, Henry told The Blizzard: "The important thing for a manager is to affirm his identity, whatever it is. You shouldn't change it if you lose. In 2009, [Pep] Guardiola didn't talk about the result [of the Champions League final]. The same goes for Arsène [Wenger] before the 2006 Champions League final. They are aesthetes, they want everything to be beautiful. You act that way when you love your work. When you paint a picture, it is so that people look at it and like it.
"I'd certainly want people to respect football. I cannot play a game to have fun. Either you play, or you don't. Winning is only the end credits sequence of that particular film."
Wenger agrees that Henry has "all the qualities" to become a coach or manager but warned that he must be prepared to sacrifice his life to the job.
"He is intelligent, committed, he loves the game," said Wenger, "He just has to think 'do I want to sacrifice all the rest of my life to be involved in that job?' It's a different job - it's a dedication of your life. You have to realise there is nothing else than that. If you look around me, people who have worked without interruption for 30 years in this job, you will not find many."
