http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569413/s/3e3a0d4e/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cfrance0C110A80A0A660CMichel0EPlatini0Ethreatens0Eretired0EFranck0ERibery0Ewith0Esuspension0Bhtml/story01.htm
Michel Platini threatens retired Franck Ribery with suspension
By Telegraph Sport, and AFP
1:56PM BST 07 Sep 2014
Comments
Uefa president Michel Platini has threatened compatriot and now-retired former France playmaker Franck Ribery with a suspension, according to Sunday's version of Bild newspaper.
Bayern Munich winger Ribery announced his retirement from France duty after the World Cup in Brazil, which he missed due to a back injury.
But Platini now claims the 31-year-old will have no choice but to continue playing for his country if selected.
"Franck cannot decide himself whether he plays for France," said the former France star and coach.
"If (coach) Didier Deschamps picks him, he must come. That's the FIFA rule. If he doesn't come, he will be suspended for three Bayern Munich games."
29 things that have changed since World Cup
Gibraltar ready for new era
Strachan setting lofty ambitions
Shaqiri centre of attention for right reasons
There is a FIFA rule in place which forces players to accept national team call-ups to prevent them - or rather their clubs - from picking and choosing which internationals they play.
But national teams usually respect a player's decision to retire from international duty.
That wasn't the case, however, back in 2006 when then France coach Raymond Domenech forced Claude Makelele, then 33, to turn up to represent the national team despite having announced his international retirement after the World Cup.
That led to Makelele's then Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho accusing Domenech of treating his player "like a slave".
- 29 things that have changed since the World Cup - Scotland furious as Muller brace seals win for Germany - Portugal suffer shock home defeat to Albania - Paul Hayward: Rooney can learn from Bobby Moore's dark side
