http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570377/s/446ebd27/sc/35/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Csixnations0C114743150CSix0ENations0E20A150ETeam0Eof0Ethe0Eweekend0Bhtml/story01.htm
Six Nations 2015: Team of the weekend
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570377/s/4464d5db/sc/8/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Csixnations0C114727640CItaly0Ev0EFrance0EUnthinkable0Efor0ELes0EBlues0Eto0Elose0Eclash0Ein0ERome0EWith0EPhilippe0ESaint0EAndre0Ein0Echarge0Ethink0Eagain0Bhtml/story01.htm
Italy v France: Unthinkable for Les Blues to lose clash in Rome? With Philippe Saint-Andre in charge, think again
By Steve James
8:00PM GMT 14 Mar 2015
Comments
The weather prospects for Rome on Sunday are gloomy, with rain. But the prospects for Philippe Saint-André will surely be even gloomier still should his French side lose to Italy.
Unthinkable that they should lose? Think again. France have lost their last two matches in Rome and have won only one of their last 12 Tests away (Scotland last year).
With Italy securing a famous victory in Scotland last time out, France looking utterly clueless again against Wales and Saint-André selecting a bizarre team for Sunday, anything could happen.
Saint-Andre is beginning to be seen as a bit of a joke figure (AFP)
Sadly Saint-André is becoming the joke of the tournament. He began the tournament under pressure, ‘sous pression’, as the French headlines always scream, and has hardly eased that.
Some say he expected to be sacked last autumn, but a victory over Australia, even if it was followed all too predictably with a defeat to Argentina, was probably just enough to keep him in the job, despite a woeful record overall since he took charge in 2012.
Under Saint-André France have not finished higher than fourth in the RBS Six Nations, and in 2013 suffered the ignominy of finishing bottom of the table.
And to think that his predecessor, Marc Lièvremont, was probably criticised much more, even though he won a Grand Slam in 2010 and managed to reach the 2011 Rugby World Cup final, however unfathomable it still appears today.

With one unconvincing victory over Scotland and two defeats to Ireland and Wales in this tournament so far, Saint-André is simply sleepwalking towards this year’s RWC, where France have to face Ireland and Sunday’s opponents Italy in Pool D.
When the French contingent were an unacceptably long time in arriving at the press conference after the Wales match a fortnight ago, one did wonder whether Saint-André, or rather those who had appointed him, had at last decided enough was enough.
And when it was announced that team manager Jo Maso was to speak first, that conspiracy theory only strengthened. But all Maso was saying was that no questions would be fielded on the drug allegations that had recently surfaced.
And so Saint-André warbled on in French and English without saying very much. He clearly did not sleep well that night, though, because when he faced the media the next morning, he really did let rip.
Even the help of Sergo Blanco hasn't made any difference (GETTY IMAGES)
He called his team “the Father Christmas of international rugby” because of their generosity in gifting opponents points, and he went on to say: “International rugby is about combat, humility. But above all it’s a collective sport. We don’t need starlets. In rugby, the team is the star and we need champions. Yesterday, I didn’t see any champions, or not many.
“I only want players who are ready to go to the end of the world. If anyone thinks that international rugby is too difficult, then they have my telephone number. They can call me and I’ll take someone else. I’ll even take a 20-year-old lad who’s never played in the Top 14 before.”
Wow. There is nothing like backing your players. Mind you, in that respect he was following Lièvremont, who in 2011 after his side had lost to Italy said: “The players are lacking courage. There is a certain cowardice. Some of the players maybe wore the French jersey for the last time.”
That threat of multiple changes is always there in France, especially with their huge player base. And it is a huge player base despite the hordes of foreigners employed in the Top 14, with Noa Nakaitaci, given his Test debut on the wing Sunday, being the 82nd player used during Saint-André’s tenure.
Noa Nakaitaci will be given his Test debut on the wing on Sunday (AFP)
Saint-André has made eight changes for Sunday’s match. Four of them – scrum half Morgan Parra, centres Rémi Lamerat and Wesley Fofana, as well as wing Sofiane Guitoune — are out through injury, but in a puzzling pot-pourri of other changes full back Brice Dulin, prop Rabah Slimani, lock Romain Taofifenua and No 8 Damien Chouly are all dropped from the starting line up.
Saint-André the conservative as a coach has generally contradicted Saint-André the risk-taker as a player, but it is the confusion in selection and game plan that has irked those in France most. For the first two matches in this tournament all France’s attacks seemed to revolve around the burly Mathieu Bastareaud. For the next two matches he has been on the bench.
Even for Sunday there is the befuddling juxtaposition of the calls for the immensely exciting Gael Fickou at centre and the plodding Scott Spedding at full back.
Who knows how they will play.
Italy? We know how they will play. They will be tight and strong at the set-piece. They make three changes after Scotland, with Andrea Masi, Leonardo Sarto and Samuela Vunisa coming in at centre, wing and flanker.
More importantly Sergio Parisse wins his 112th cap, a record for Italy. No player deserves a victory Sunday more than him, a true colossus of a forward, and, frankly, it would be no surprise if that does happen.
