http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570377/s/4469b51a/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Csixnations0C11473480A0CItaly0E0A0EFrance0E290Ematch0Ereport0EYoann0EMaestri0Ecaps0Ea0Erare0Eglimpse0Eof0Eold0Eflair0Ein0Ecomedy0Eof0Eerrors0Bhtml/story01.htm
Italy 0 France 29, match report: Yoann Maestri caps a rare glimpse of old flair in comedy of errors
By Simon Briggs, Stadio Olimpico
5:18PM GMT 15 Mar 2015
Comments
The score might suggest that France have found their mojo, but in truth this was another error-strewn performance that should hardly put the frighteners on England ahead of next weekend's meeting at Twickenham.
On a damp and drizzly day by the Tiber, the French only looked good by comparison with the dozens of balls dropped and given away by a hapless Italy.
For most of the match, they lacked fluidity in attack and still seem to have no obvious game-plan under their beleaguered coach Philippe Saint-André. Their defence, however, was impressive: only one tackle was missed in the match and Italy never seriously threatened to score a try.
French fans could also point to a couple of moments of genius. The first 80 minutes produced only one try, but what a try it was - a length-of-the-field effort that began with Scott Spedding, the South Africa-born full-back, fielding an aimless kick from Italy's third-choice fly-half Luciano Orquera.
Italy's preferred option of Kelly Haimona had been abandoned after he suffered an injury in training that was coyly described as "genital trauma", while Tommaso Allen started the match only to be forced off by a more conventional groin injury.


After collecting the kick around five yards from his own goal line, Spedding went speeding diagonally up the field and ghosted through a hole in the Italian defence, feeding Yoann Huget before Andrea Masi finally managed to stop the rot inside the Italian 22.

Camille Lopez kicks the first of two penalties (Rex)
But the defenders were overstretched and some slick passing sent the ball out to the right wing, where the unlikely figure of lock-forward Yoann Maestri rumbled in unopposed. This was not a planned move, we can be confident, as Maestri had not scored before in 35 international appearances.
France were also on to their back-up fly-half by this stage, Jules Plisson, after Camille Lopez had been forced off at half-time by injury. While guilty of one wasteful kick straight into touch, Lopez had also produced France's brightest moment of the first half - a snaking run deep into enemy territory that featured one sidestep so JPR Williams-esque that it left Italian scrum-half Edoardo Gori spread-eagled on the turf.
Apart from those handful of highlights, there was little to enjoy except rousing renditions of the two finest anthems in the championship. The first half, in particular, delivered a comedy of errors from both sides. If France weren't leaking penalties, they were kicking the ball to Sergio Parisse, which was hardly smart work given that he is comfortably the best player in Italy. But even Parisse was unable to make much capital out of his possession, as he seemed to be infected by the same butterfingers as the rest of the team.

Gael Fickou makes a burst (Getty Images)
As Italy missed two early penalty kicks, the cameras cut to their coach Jacques Brunel, sitting there with his chin on his palm as if wondering when he can cut his losses and get back to the Top 14.
France left it late to score their final seven points. The clock read 82 minutes when Matthieu Bastareaud did what he does best - taking the ball straight up the middle and through a couple of tacklers to score from five yards out.
The try gave the scoreboard a healthy sheen but really the opposition were so poor that France's win felt hollow. The pressure may be released a little on Saint-André but England will be a different proposition.
