http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570377/s/43f01620/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Csixnations0C114440A0A90CSix0ENations0Eteam0Eof0Ethe0Eweekend0Ein0Epictures0Bhtml/story01.htm
Six Nations team of the weekend - in pictures
http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570377/s/43ec5cbd/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Csixnations0C114437630CSix0ENations0EFrench0Econtingent0Eshine0Efor0EWales0Ein0EParis0Bhtml/story01.htm
Six Nations: French contingent shine for Wales in Paris
By Steve James, in Paris
10:00PM GMT 01 Mar 2015
Comments
There were statements aplenty made in Paris on Saturday evening, not least from Wales in screaming that they are far from done as competitive beasts in the northern hemisphere. Indeed now, with Ireland having beaten England, their encounter against the Irish in a fortnight gives them a tilt at the RBS Six Nations Championship.
Wales’s victory was a ruggedly efficient affair, with their pack quite outstanding, but more than that there were so many individuals with points to prove who did so emphatically.
Take the centre Jamie Roberts, with whom Racing Métro look like dispensing at the end of the season. He was quite magnificent, and should have been the man of the match.
Then what about Dan Lydiate, with whom Racing have dispensed? He played a marvellous hand in Wales’s only try, giving a delightful pass to fly-half Dan Biggar after a typically threatening break from scrum-half Rhys Webb.
Dan Lydiate's pop pass to Dan Biggar was sublime. Source REX FEATURES
Heroic Halfpenny downs France
Six Nations title a real possibility
France v Wales: as it happened
North suffered three 'massive' blows to the head
“I was keeping it for a rainy day, when needs must!” Lydiate said with a laugh. “I’ve said I want to work on my handling and it was just a pass that came off.”
Also, what about Jonathan Davies, whose career has hardly been set alight at Clermont Auvergne? He
had his best match for some considerable time.
The other France-based players, Luke Charteris and Leigh Halfpenny, did not do too badly, either. And that is before we get to George North, who had missed the previous match against Scotland because of concussion but, on the occasion of his 50th Test cap, had been challenged to rediscover his verve. He did that for sure. It was also one of his finest games for some time.
It was little surprise that Warren Gatland, the Wales head coach, was purring afterwards, especially with his French contingent. “I thought there was an edge about those players, and they did a good job for us,” Gatland said.
“Some of Jamie Roberts’s carrying was excellent, getting us across the gain line, the goalkicking of Leigh Halfpenny was potentially the dif­ference, and Luke Charteris was outstanding defensively in line-outs and rucks. Dan Lydiate kept working hard, he obviously had something to prove as well.

“I think for the Welsh players based over here in France it was probably about them wanting to prove their worth and value and the reason why they are over here.”
As for Roberts he said: “They are always very harsh critics in France. That’s what I’ve learned in the last few years here. But it’s nice to play out here and win against some of my club mates.”
He would not be drawn on his club future, though. “There’s a been a lot of stuff in the press and I will probably make an announcement in the next few weeks,” he said. “I don’t know what exactly is going on.”
However, he and his Wales colleagues knew exactly what was going on in the Stade de France.
Wales knew that they had to match France physically, and they did that, and much more, monopolising possession in the first half, weathering France’s best period of the match just after half time and then scoring that excellent try from Biggar.
“We won ugly again out here,” Roberts said after a similarly dogged 16-6 victory in Paris in 2013. “I thought we played all the rugby in the first half and our defence ended up winning the game.
“We carried hard and made yards. It’s difficult to win pretty here and sometimes you have to do it the ­difficult way. And we did that really well today.”
Roberts was winded when making a magnificent late tackle on French replacement Remi Tales but of more concern to Wales was a knee injury to captain Sam Warburton.
Wales celebrate as France trudge off the pitch
He suffered it when attempting to take the ­second-half kick-off but played on until the 70th minute before ­accepting the inevitable.
“My knee just swelled up and I couldn’t run at full pelt,” Warburton said.
He was in obvious discomfort after the match, hobbling into the press conference, but Wales are hopeful that it is a bang rather than a twist of any kind and that he will be fit to face Ireland on March 14.
After defeat to England in the opening match, with victories over Scotland and France, Wales are certainly back on track in the championship.
“Yes, we’re back in with a shot,” Lydiate said. “It’s a lot more positive than it was after the first game. We’re back in the hunt.”
Which is more than can be said of France. The pressure must be ­mounting on the head coach, Philippe Saint-André.
But not that he seems to notice. He reckons his side have made progress.
“Two years ago we were dominated at home by Wales but here they had one chance to score a try and scored,” he said. “Their kicker had five from six. They were efficient and we weren’t.”
Yes, Halfpenny kicked superbly, while Camille Lopez and Morgan Parra did not, but that was not the whole story.


