http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/568400/s/4492c02f/sc/8/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cmotorsport0Cformulaone0C114828130CSilverstone0Eto0Efight0Eformer0Econtractor0ESilverstone0EHospitality0ELimited0Ein0EHigh0ECourt0Bhtml/story01.htm
Silverstone to fight former contractor Silverstone Hospitality Limited in High Court
By Daniel Johnson, F1 Correspondent
1:47PM GMT 19 Mar 2015
Silverstone is preparing to face claims it unlawfully ended a major contract in a court case which could cost the cash-strapped circuit £4 million.
Telegraph Sport understands that the home of British racing has declined the opportunity to settle with an axed contractor and is ready to fight the case in the High Court.
Court proceedings have been issued by lawyers acting for Stephen Saunders and his company Silverstone Hospitality Limited, which is now in administration after its contract with Silverstone was terminated in December.
With traditional Formula One circuits already in precarious circumstances, as the struggles for the German Grand Prix show, this ongoing legal row is another expense Silverstone could do without as it looks to return to profit for the first time in years. Silverstone currently pays as much as £15 million a year to Bernie Ecclestone’s Formula One Management to host the race.
Bernie Ecclestone's company is understood to receive £15m from Silverstone
Although it will not sit for at least another two months, the case will examine in forensic detail the boardroom coup which saw Richard Phillips, the managing director of 10 years, removed along with a number of his fellow senior managers. Lawrence Tomlinson, former “entrepreneur in residence” to the government, will feature highly after being instrumental in the process by which Patrick Allen took over as chief executive.
Along with the British Racing Drivers’ Club (BRDC), which owns the circuit and has taken full control in the last six months, Tomlinson ended catering, security and other contracts but left as acting chief executive and his place on the BRDC board last December.
In an interview with Telegraph Sport last month, John Grant, the chairman of the BRDC, was bullish about Saunders’ legal case. “We terminated the contract,” he said. “He feels we terminated it unlawfully. If he wants to take that view he will have a go at us, and we’ll see what happens, but we feel we had a basis to terminate it.”
A spokesman for Silverstone and the BRDC said: “Due to this now being a legal matter, unfortunately we are unable to make any comment.”
