http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570377/s/43e5bcb9/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Csixnations0C11442240A0CFrance0E130EWales0E20A0ESix0ENations0E20A150Ematch0Ereport0EClinical0ELeigh0EHalfpenny0Epunishes0Eabject0Ehosts0Bhtml/story01.htm
France 13 Wales 20, Six Nations 2015 match report: Clinical Leigh Halfpenny punishes abject hosts
By Steve James, at the Stade de France
11:04PM GMT 28 Feb 2015
Comments
France simply cannot beat Wales. This was Wales’ fourth successive victory in this fixture, the first time they have done that since the 1950s, and it was thoroughly deserved.
It was never pretty, but it was another day when Wales’ big men stood up, with their physical centres Jamie Roberts and Jonathan Davies and wing George North outstanding, while Dan Biggar’s control at fly-half was excellent, Leigh Halfpenny’s place-kicking was superb, Alun-Wyn Jones was as immense as ever and the forwards’ set-piece was solid after some minor first-half wobbles at the scrummage.
Wales’ only worry on Saturday night was a knee injury to captain Sam Warburton, who was hobbling badly at the press conference afterwards and did not attend the after-match function in order to ice the injury.
One late tackle from Roberts on replacement Rémi Talès, smashing the ball out of his grasp as France pressed for a share of the spoils, summed up how emphatically Wales had won the physical battle. Some might not like this style, but it was effective enough again. Winning in Paris is never easy, despite France’s obvious shortcomings at the moment.
Because, boy, France were awful again, making far too many errors and just not threatening at all. How much longer will Philippe Saint-André be given? It has gone beyond a joke now. France should be so much better. They should at least look as if they know what they are doing in terms of structure and intent. Yet again that did not appear to be the case.
Six Nations title a real possibility
France v Wales: as it happened
Ireland v England: who comes out on top?
O'Connell says England are better than 2003
They had a spell after half-time when they looked sharp and precise, and they did score their first try after four tryless encounters against Wales, but other than that? Very little.
Wales had led 6-3 at half-time, which was probably not the sort of lead they wanted, given that they had utterly dominated both possession and territory. And had Camille Lopez not missed two penalties, they might not have been ahead at all.
And France had had a try disallowed too when Lopez’s long pass to wing Yoann Huget was deemed forward.
Dan Biggar crashes over for Wales's only try (REX FEATURES)
There had been another moment when France thought they were through when centre Rémi Lamerat sliced the defence off Lopez’s pass, but a brilliant tackle from Warburton denied him.
Warburton had had a lively first half, taking two re-starts superbly, but soon after his break Lamerat was departing to allow the local hero, Mathieu Bastareaud, to arrive from the bench. He was soon dumping Liam Williams with a trademark tackle, to the delight of the home crowd.
While Wales did not have to do too much defending there was one moment of light relief in that respect when they earned a penalty from a 'choke’ tackle as Damien Chouly was held up.
It was only last week that assistant coach Shaun Edwards was decrying the tactic. Ah well, if you cannot beat them, join them.
Leigh Halfpenny kicked 15 points for Wales against France (ACTION IMAGES)
The second half began with Warburton being unable to gather the kick-off this time and taking that knock to his knee in the process. “We are not too sure how serious it is,” said head coach Warren Gatland.
France were awarded another penalty and this time Morgan Parra took over the kicking duties, but he could not find the mark either. Otherwise Parra was decent. He left after 52 minutes with a knee injury. France missed him.
And though Wesley Fofana soon escaped down the left, exchanging passes with Sofiane Guitoune, France could not quite make it count when they were penalised for obstruction as Bastareaud went through.
France were certainly energised, though, and soon Lopez made it 6-6. “We have got a massive problem with starting the second half,” admitted Gatland.
But Halfpenny just as quickly kicked another penalty and Wales were back in front, and from there they assumed control. “I thought composure and experience was what got us over the line,” said Gatland. “We improved and matured as a team a heck of a lot tonight.”
Biggar kicks clear in the first half at the Stade de France (AFP)
And there was the not insignificant matter of Biggar scoring a quite magnificent try. North made ground initially but, from a ruck, Rhys Webb made a brilliant sniping run to feed Dan Lydiate, whose excellent pass then fed Biggar on an arcing run to the corner.
He just about made it, but he deserved to, his first try for Wales, and though Halfpenny missed the difficult conversion, Wales were 14-6 up.
France had to respond, and they did. They had not scored a try against Wales in the last four matches, but Brice Dulin stopped that rot with a score on the try line after play had swept left and right, with Vincent Debaty prominent. Lopez converted and it set up an exciting finale that belied some of the turgid fare that had gone before.
With Paul James on at prop and Richard Hibbard at hooker, Wales’ scrummage was suddenly in the ascendancy and they won a penalty there that Halfpenny kicked, so that it was 20-13 with seven minutes remaining.
And that was how it stayed. After the opening-night defeat by England, Wales will feel that they still have a chance in the championship hunt after two successive victories, and will probably be cheering for Ireland in Dublin on Sunday. “We are back in contention, but we need a couple of results to go our way,” said Gatland.
That they do, but this was reminder enough that they are still a force with which to be reckoned.


