http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604241/s/3f112ac9/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Colympics0Cgymnastics0C111374810CLouis0ESmith0Emissing0EWorld0EGymnastics0EChampionship0Ebut0Ehunger0Eis0Eback0Bhtml/story01.htm
Louis Smith missing World Gymnastics Championship but hunger is back
By Tom Cary
10:11PM BST 02 Oct 2014
Comments
The eyes of the gymnastics world will be trained squarely on China for the next 10 days, where the World Championships begin today in Nanning, a lush city in the deep south of the country, close to the border with Vietnam. After a wildly successful Commonwealth Games, the men and women of the British squad have high hopes of flowering on the world stage.
But they will have to take on the combined might of the Chinese, Japanese, Russians and Americans without their most celebrated son.
Louis Smith, who became in 2008 the first British gymnast since 1928 to win an Olympic medal when he claimed bronze in the pommel horse, and who followed that up with silver at London 2012, will not be in China. Smith will be in Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, training alone at the gymnastics club where he first started out as a small boy.
The 25-year-old is living in a sort of gymnastics limbo, half in, half out of the British Gymnastics programme, training without their support yet keen to return to the funding fold.
Smith chose this route himself, opting to step away from the sport post-2012 and indulge his other interests. He famously sashayed to success in Strictly Come Dancing, and was more recently to be seen as a judge on the BBC’s celebrity gymnastics show Tumble.
Fragapane just revels in her licence to thrill
Fragapane floors her rivals to enter record books
Fragapane bags third gold medal
Whitlock claims third gold of Games
England gymnasts sweep podium
Whitlock claims gymnastics gold
His foray into the world of celebrity did not go down well with everyone, however. When, after a year away from the sport, he declared his intention to return to competitive action at the Commonwealths in Glasgow, his commitment was called into question. It is a charge that Smith denies vehemently.
“The hunger is definitely back,” he says. “I like to consider myself quite a strong-minded person. And if I want something then I will work hard for it. But you do start to ask yourself questions when you have so many people doubting you.
“When I returned to training I didn’t have the full support or backing of people who I thought would have had my back after the years I had dedicated to the sport.
“So then after the Commonwealth Games [where Smith took bronze in the pommel horse] it was such a relief to know that the belief I had in myself was justified. It gave me the belief to carry on going, and not to listen to the people who don’t believe in me.”
It is a revealing insight into the psyche of Smith, someone who admits he prefers to train independently, apart from British Gymnastics, but who feels he has earned their support, both emotional and financial.
Someone clearly hurt by what he perceives to be a lack of support.
Someone who admits to a need to indulge his many other passions – from television to acting to designing his own fashion range – but who insists he will give everything to make it back to the top of his sport. He knows it will not be easy. “I believe I have just as much potential as I did in 2008 and 2012,” he says of his chances in 2016.
“But I will be 27 by the time Rio comes around. I’m not a young strong pup like most of the team. I’ve got a massive job to do just to get back into the Great Britain team next year [the World Championships in Glasgow], let alone for Rio. So who knows? But I definitely believe I have the potential to go all the way.”
Those who see parallels between Smith’s story and that of Tom Daley, another sporting prodigy who went the reality TV route, whose commitment was called into question, would not be far wrong. Like Daley, Smith admitted to exhaustion and burnout following his historic achievements.
And while it is clearly not a comparison he wishes to encourage, he is happy to affirm his regard for the diver. “I think anyone that can deal with pressure, and juggle multiple things, and still focus on their job – regardless of what people think may be going on in their head – is an amazing person and an amazing competitor,” he says of Daley. “The [TV appearances] are my livelihood. That is how I get my funding. But it doesn’t mean I have taken my eye off the prize.”
It is why Smith will be following events in China so closely this week. He needs to know what he is up against, with Max Whitlock’s coach having suggested his 21-year-old charge could win up to four medals. The rising star of British gymnastics gave an interview this week in which, while he did not explicitly question Smith’s penchant for celebrity, he made it clear it was not a path he would choose to go down.
Smith resists the urge to bite back. He says he is excited to watch the “little firecracker” Claudia Fragapane and predicts British medals “100 per cent” in Nanning, even if China and Japan are still out in front.
“The young guys we’ve got coming up are looking absolutely amazing,” he says. “And that is only natural; each generation gets better. The young guys will naturally push themselves harder and try for bigger tricks. So it will not be easy coming back.
“It will be exciting and it will be painful. We’ll see whether my body is up for it. But I know what I need to do, what I want out of my career and what needs to be done to get there.”
