http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604241/s/3f60fab2/sc/24/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Colympics0Cgymnastics0C111575320CWorld0EGymnastics0EChampionships0E20A140EBritain0Eput0Ein0Etheir0Eplace0Eas0EUnited0EStates0Erule0Ethe0Eworld0Ein0EChina0Bhtml/story01.htm
World Gymnastics Championships 2014: Britain put in their place as United States rule the world in China
By Telegraph Sport, and agencies
9:45PM BST 12 Oct 2014
Comments
In case Great Britain’s gymnasts had been in any doubt about their standing on the world stage after a triumphant Commonwealth Games, a week in China should act as a corrective.
In Glasgow this summer, they secured an astonishing 19 artistic gymnastic medals, nine of them gold.
In the World Championships, which ended in Nanning on Sunday, only Max Whitlock, who equalled the best finish for a British gymnast in a World Championships all-around final with a silver last week, will bring home a medal.
Claudia Fragapane, who won four gold medals in Glasgow, was delighted to make three individual finals in Nanning, but winning a medal proved elusive as she finished 10th, fifth and eighth.
The 16-year-old came eighth in the floor final, the victim of a fall as she failed to control her landing of her first tumble.
Whitlock wins world all-around silver
Gymnasts make the strangest faces
GB seal world final place
Smith missing China but hunger is back
But, in her first senior year in the sport, she was far from disillusioned by her week’s work.
“I think I almost tried too hard today and that cost me,” she said on Sunday. “Overall the championships have been amazing, to make three individual finals in my first year is great.
"The whole year has been incredible; I’ve learnt so much and kept on improving. I’m so happy to have achieved what I have.”
The best British performance on Sunday came from Nile Wilson, who built on his Glasgow gold by coming fourth on the horizontal bars.
The 18-year-old had been forced to withdraw from Friday’s all-around finals with a wrist injury but scored 14.766 on the bars on Sunday, with Croatia’s Marijo Moznik beating him to bronze with a score of 15.000.
The Dutch Olympic champion Epke Zonderland claimed gold with a total score of 16.225.
“I didn’t really go in with any expectations,” Wilson said. “I was just happy to be in the final and to be lined up against an Olympic champion was unreal.
"Coming fourth is a great achievement, just below the medals. Eighteen years old. I could not be happier.
"I know my difficulty is quite low so I just focused on going really clean today. Just tried to enjoy myself. That was the main thing.”
The experience also gave Wilson a better idea of what he needs to do to one day match the likes of Zonderland.
“First, I’m going to increase my difficulty,” he said. “I think he’s gone up to seven plus, so that’s my first target. And during the skills he’s doing, he’s just unbelievable.
"My target and my mission is to beat him. One day, I think I can do it.”
Wilson withdrew from Friday’s final, handing his place to Whitlock who went on to take silver.
“I made the decision the day before. My wrist injury was getting to the point where it was a bit silly to carry on and it could cause a major injury.
"So I made that decision to help Max get through. I think it was the right decision.
"It could have done serious damage to my wrist and that would have put me out for months.
"I didn’t want that. I was thinking more about the future. It’s my first world championships, not the be all, end all of my career.”
While Fragapane was the star of Glasgow, American teenager Simone Biles was the undoubted golden girl in China.
She won two more gold medals on Sunday to finish with four and leave the United States as the top team ahead of China.
The 17-year-old, who earlier retained her all-around title and powered the United States to a second straight women’s team gold, stole the show as she beat China’s Bai Yawen by just 0.067 points on the beam and blew away the field to keep her floor crown.
Biles’ heroics accounted for all four of the United States’ gold medals at the 10-day event in Nanning, China, ahead of the hosts on three and North Korea in third place with two.
