http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604241/s/3f4a7e43/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Colympics0Cgymnastics0C111520A830CMax0EWhitlock0Ewins0EWorld0EGymnastics0EChampionships0Eall0Earound0Esilver0Bhtml/story01.htm
Max Whitlock wins World Gymnastics Championships all-around silver
By Tom Cary, and PA
4:58PM BST 09 Oct 2014
Comments
In the end he was not able to beat his “idol”, the world and Olympic champion Kohei Uchimura, but Max Whitlock still made history on Thursday, equalling the best finish for a British gymnast in a World Championship all-around final with silver in Nanning, China.
Whitlock’s floor routine, during which he landed his final triple twist before punching the air with both arms, moved the 21-year-old from Hemel Hempstead briefly into first place overall with a score of 90.473.
For a moment there were hopes that the rising star of the British gymnastics team, who took three gold medals, as well as a silver and a bronze, at this summer’s Commonwealth Games in Glasgow, might become Britain’s first ever individual world champion.
Uchimura, though, was not to be denied. The 25-year-old Japanese, of whom Whitlock said in the build-up that he “could watch his gymnastics all day”, scored 15.233 on the horizontal bar to amass a huge 91.965 overall, and with it claim his fifth successive all-around crown and seventh in total.
Even Whitlock’s best yet score of 90.631 for the all-around, set in Glasgow, would still have been some way off Uchimura.
Gymnasts make the strangest faces
GB seal world final place
Smith missing China but hunger is back
Fragapane just revels in her licence to thrill
Commonwealth Games day 11: as it happened
No wonder he was delighted. It had been a difficult week for Whitlock up until Thursday. With his coach having piled on the pressure in the build-up, predicting his charge might win four medals, he had failed to qualify for any of the individual finals and only learnt he would compete in the all-around final on Wednesday after his team-mate, Nile Wilson, withdrew with a wrist injury.
“I can’t quite believe the week’s ended this way, but I’m so proud,” he said. “The whole trip has been a roller-coaster. I can’t believe I’m now standing with the world silver.
“From starting on pommel I nailed my best routine of the week and that set me off. I didn’t put any pressure on myself and wasn’t looking at any of the other scores as we went around. To compete alongside my idol Uchimura is a huge honour and to be on the medal podium with him is very special.
“I’d like to say a big shout out to Nile though, it wasn’t easy for him to have to pull out. He’s a great gymnast and he’s going to be so strong and win a lot of medals in the future.”
Whitlock’s achievement matched that of his team-mate Dan Keatings, who finished second at the 2009 World Championships in London, and made up for the disappointment of narrowly missing out on a medal in the all-round competition in Antwerp last year.
Japan’s Yusuke Tanaka (90.449) finished third with Whitlock’s GB team-mate Dan Purvis (87.699) 11th.
Today it is the turn of the women with Ruby Harrold and four-time Commonwealth champion Claudia Fragapane in action for Great Britain in the all-around final.
