http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570116/s/3b9fe9db/sc/38/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Cicehockey0C10A90A8850A0CToday0Eon0EYouTube0EMayor0EEric0EGarcetti0Ecelebrates0ELA0EKings0EStanley0ECup0Ewith0Ean0EF0Eword0Eon0Elive0ETV0Bhtml/story01.htm
Today on YouTube: Mayor Eric Garcetti celebrates LA Kings Stanley Cup with an F-word on live TV
By Telegraph Sport
12:53PM BST 18 Jun 2014
Comments
Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti let's fly with the F-word in front of millions of people as he leads his city in celebration of the LA Kings’ second Stanley Cup championship in three years.
“There are two rules in politics,” the usually soft-spoken mayor told the Kings and their fans. “They say never ever be pictured with a drink in your hand. And never ever swear.
“But this is a big f---ing day. Way to go, guys.”
And another thing ...
Maldives striker re-invents penalty kick with bizarre swallow dive.
Gaël Monfils and Laurent Lokoli break into dance-off at Roland Garros. Monfils is the clear winner.
Brazil's Bruno Xavier scores the greatest beach football goal . . . ever
Smooth young baseball fan hands match ball to pretty lady - or does he?
Auckland schoolboy Taniela Tupou looks an awesome rugby prospect. The new Jonah Lomu?
Andre Villas-Boas, head coach of Russian Premier League leaders Zenit St Petersburg, runs onto the pitch in a vain attempt to stop a horde of drunken hooligans bent on attacking players from rivals Dynamo Moscow.
Kyoto Sanga FC beat J-League rivals Tokohama FC 2-0, with the second goal involving this rather extravagant four-man step over. (It's playfulness recalls this beauty by German side Rot-Weiss Essen last year ...)
Kieron Pollard throws his bat at Mitchell Starc during heated IPL clash
Sir Roger Bannister's famous sub-four-minute mile from 1954
McLaren's touching tribute on 20th anniversary of Senna's death
Spanish footballers don disguises to work with average Joes in heart-warming vid
Samoan rugby player prompts laughter from the crowd as he takes comedy dive
Fifa release official World Cup song 'We Are One (Ole Ola)'
Daniel Sturridge surprises schoolkids before teaching them his dance celebration
Japan rugby sevens player Kosuke Hashino attempts swan dive – and fails
Nautico player Izaldo scores comedy own goal at the second attempt
Brett Morris scores amazing rugby league try with sensational flying touchdown
Wayne Rooney adds to David Moyes's embarrassment by nutmegging him during training
Neymar makes young South African pitch invader's day as Brazil romp to victory in friendly
Hoffenheim mascot loses his head while celebrating a goal
John Wall jumps over mascot to win dunk contest at NBA All Star Weekend
Italian footballer headbutts dugout after scoring a goal and is sent off
Real Sociedad goalkeeper Enaut Zubikarai scored an unfortunate, and bizarre, own-goal to help Barcelona to a 2-0 lead in their Copa del Rey first leg match at Camp Nou.
Former Fifa Player of the Year Ronaldinho releases his debut song
Spectator wins £50,000 after brilliant catch off New Zealand batsman Corey Anderson
Sporting Lisbon youngsters go wild as Cristiano Ronaldo wins the Ballon d'Or
Bayern Munich manager Pep Guardiola looks as though he's had one too many sherbets as he shakes off his Mr Quiet Guy image in training
Former Celtic star Shunsuke Nakamura arcs a free kick to hit the top of a wedding cake ... at an actual wedding
Here is Brett Lee showing off his own version of bodyline against Piers Morgan. Ouch.
Luis Suarez is rudely snubbed by a young female Tottenham mascot before her side lose 5-0 and sack their manager.
This is probably the best on-the-run basketball shot you will ever see.
Taylor University Silent Night 2013 leads to student basketball court invasion
Wayne Rooney and Rory McIlroy reveal their balls in Nike's new advert.
Nike reveal brilliant new Brazil football advert ahead of World Cup 2014
Jason Kidd, Brooklyn Nets coach, fined for intentionally spilling drink
Will Smith shows Novak Djokovic how to dance while watching match in Argentina
