http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/570116/s/376073d5/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Cicehockey0C10A6532640CUSA0Ev0ECanada0Emens0Eice0Ehockey0Esemi0Efinal0Eat0ESochi0E20A140EWinter0EOlympics0Elive0Bhtml/story01.htm
USA v Canada: men's ice hockey semi-final at Sochi 2014 Winter Olympics: live
By Ben Bloom
7:38PM GMT 21 Feb 2014
Email or tweet with tips for understanding the glorious sport of ice hockey. As a neutral should he support USA or Canada?

• USA v Canada: The biggest rivalry in hockey • Barack Obama places bet with Stephen Harper • Canada thrash Britain to claim curling gold • The best Winter Olympics wipeouts: in pictures • USA v Canada: in pictures
USA 0 CANADA 1
19.38 That's all from me then. Congratulations to Canada and commiserations to America. Ice hockey's biggest rivalry is done and dusted for another Olympics and it is Canada who advance for the chance to win gold on Sunday. You can read our report of the semi-final here. Thanks for all the tweets and emails. It turns out ice hockey readers are a much nicer bunch than football (soccer) readers! Enjoy the weekend. Cheerio.
19.29 Two things: 1. Does that mean Justin Bieber now belongs to the United States (see post at 16.53)?
2. I like this tweet below a lot.
<noframe>Twitter: Paul Fairie - Sad that no Canadian men's hockey player is called Allen because then the headline "Allen key to taking apart Swedish defence" could exist.</noframe>
19.22 Canada were able to expertly shut out the game and, as a now fully clued up ice hockey "expert", I feel qualified to say that they deserved victory. The US just didn't do anywhere near enough to threaten the Canada goal and Quick was probably their star man, saving 36 shots in total.
19.17 So there you have it. The commentators were at pains to point out that it was not a match to live long in the memory. It was all a bit niggly with poor shooting the overriding theme from both sides. But it only took one magic moment from Bouwmeester and Benn to make the difference.
19.14 Perhaps the result may have been different had Kessel not decided to take a break to try and find a drink on the Canadian bench in the third period (that may or may not have been what he was doing in the photo below)...
There are plenty more pictures in our gallery of today's match here: USA v Canada

19.10 So the best USA can hope for is a bronze medal. They will play Finland tomorrow in the bronze-medal match while Canada march on to Sunday's final where they will face Sweden.
19.09 Canada are through to the final!!
Full time
0.44 (3rd period) Into the last minute and Quick is pulled...
1.22 (3rd period) Here come Carter and Marleau on the break but Carlson does BRILLIANTLY getting back to halt the Canada charge. Can that inspire his side to produce a late equaliser?
2.34 (3rd period) Tick-tock. Tick-tock. American dreams are slip-sliding away but they can't find a way past the Canada defence.
4.01 (3rd period) From everyone's tweets it seems there are dozens of you being distracted by this live blog in class. Don't skip school kids. Meanwhile Crosby brings the puck forward for Canada and forces another save from Quick on the backhand.
5.05 (3rd period) The Americans are behind in the shot count in every period of this match. They are starting to get a bit desperate now it seems and they are almost caught out as Kunitz finds himself with a glorious chance down the other end but cannot convert.
7.21 (3rd period) Two separate Canada fans have sent me comprehensive lists of "10 reasons why you should support Canada". Thanks for your hard work guys! The power play is over so it's five-on-five again as Bergeron almost squeezes the puck past Quick from a tight angle.
9.02 (3rd period) Time is running out for the Americans here. What have you got USA? I can't hear you. What have you got??? Nothing. Orpik sees his shot saved and then Kessel is penalised for hooking. Uh oh...
12.08 (3rd period) Kunitz shoots once but it is blocked. Kunitz shoots twice but it is saved. Kunitz lines up a third shot but he the puck is whipped away before he can connect.
13.25 (3rd period) Parise has a rare shot for the Americans in this period. But Price smothers it with ease as it flies right into the middle of the goalie's maple leaf on his stomach.
<noframe>Twitter: Sid Dhingra - Sitting in med class learning embryology but I can't pay attention thanks to <a href="http://www.twitter.com/benbloomsport" target="_blank">@benbloomsport</a> 's live feed! GOOO CANADA!!!</noframe>
14.34 (3rd period) It's still one-way traffic. First Petrangelo tries his luck, then Benn, then Crosby, then... you get the idea.
One. Two. Three. BUUUUUNDLE

16.10 (3rd period) America are really up against it and struggling to put any offensive moves together. One more Canadian goal could put an end to this. Or maybe not. Oh I don't know!
17.53 (3rd period) It's a quiet start to the period as Canada are seemingly happy to kill off the game. The Americans must provide the impetus to get things moving but they are failing to do so at the moment.
19.20 (3rd period) Face-off No 1 fails. Face-off No 2 fails. Finally we are underway. "Has this game lived up to the hype?" asks Mr Commentator. "Not yet," replies Mr Co-Commentator.
20.00 (3rd period) Will this be the last 20 minutes of this game? Let's find out.
18.37 Oooh Todd in North Carolina has upset some American readers. Styndal (presumably not their real name... or maybe it is?) hits back:
Any Americans who are saying support canada should move. Seriously.... nothing like having national pride... and we wonder what's wrong with America today!! You should support America.... duhhhh!!
18.33 Words fail me:

18.29 The number of emails I have had telling me to support Canada have been enormous! My favourite is this one from Todd in North Carolina:
You should pull for Canada. Why? Because we Americans are like Great Britain's unruly, rebellious son, even though we love each other now. Canada is more like your grandchild with some French blood thrown in.And we all know how different we treat our grandchildren compared to our children!
18.27 Interestingly the Canadians had 12 shots in that second period to the USA's 11, which is quite surprising considering Canada's dominance.
End of second period
0.10 (2nd period) The Americans call a time out as they attempt to bring a halt to the Canada charge. It seems to have little effect though as they are creating very little when they bring the puck forward.
1.08 (2nd period) The referee has just been taken out and thumps down on his face. That's what ice hockey is all about people. Forget goals, this sport is about flooring officials.
2.20 (2nd period) The US are knocking the puck around with ease during the powerplay but Canada are defending brilliantly and indeed they have managed to see out the two minutes with barely a shot from the Americans.
4.37 (2nd period) I'm mightily impressed by this Pietrangelo chap. Again he bursts forward down the right and thrashes a shot towards the roof of the net only for Quick to save well again. The goalie is keeping the Americans in this at the moment. Moments later Kunitz is thrown two metres in the air, yet is penalised for slashing.
5.55 (2nd period) We're in a mid-game lull right now. If that's not a technical ice hockey term it should be because I'm watching it happen right now. Although Benn does his best to break the lull by pinging a shot in that Quick smothers.
<noframe>Twitter: That Awkward Moment - Hockey is more enjoyable if you pretend they're fighting over the world's last Oreo.</noframe>
7.21 (2nd period) "It's a quick game," says Mr Commentator. He should try typing rather than speaking and then it will seem a whole lot quicker! The Americans have too many players on the ice but it's not penalised.
8.55 (2nd period) Now it's Pietrangelo coming forward to support the Canada attack and his long-range effort is blocked. I'd be slightly worried if I were a US fan now... and as I type that Doughty fires a shot inches wide.
11.02 (2nd period) The Canadians are building up a head of steam here and Kunitz is asking plenty of questions of the US defence without troubling Quick.
"Right we have two options. 1. Watch and enjoy the game. 2. Take a selfie. Yep, let's take a selfie."

13.52 (2nd period) Oh so close! Kane is running the show for the USA but his shot is well saved by Price. And the Canadians have successfully seen out the powerplay.
15.30 (2nd period) The Americans are camped around the Canadian goal but cannot get their shots away. Half of the powerplay gone...
16.30 (2nd period) Chants of YOO-ES-AY ring around the arena as the American fans try to inspire their team. And now they have a powerplay as Getzlaf is penalised for a high stick. Is this comeback time?
GOAL! USA 0 Canada 1 (Benn) The deadlock is broken and it is done so in some style. Benn picks up the puck in front of the net and knocks it back to Bouwmeester. The defender unleashes a thunderbolt from range that Benn gets on the end of and turns it past Quick to give the goalie no chance.
17.54 Right then. It's time for the second period. Ready. Heeeeeeeere we go.
17.51 I appear to have upset a few people by including a blocked shot as a shot on goal. I can only offer my sincerest apologies. I will make sure I punish myself by sitting in a dark room and thinking about what I've done... as soon as this match is over. Otherwise the blog would have to end now which would probably get me the sack from my boss...
17.45 So it's been rather a close run thing so far. You want some stats to back up that pithy comment? Here you go: Canada 16 shots. USA 11 shots. You want more stats? I haven't got any. You'll just have to trust me that it's been very competitive.
I'm going to take this opportunity to thank quite a few of you for your hints and bits of advice for this hockey novice! I've had this email from Joe Kennedy. You learn something new every day (well I do anyway...):
If a shot gets blocked it doesn't get count as a shot on goal, it has to a shot stopped by the goalie to count as a SOG.
End of first period
0.47 (1st period) Canada have all their players back on the ice and Kunitz (probably not related to Mila Kunis judging by the fact that his name is spelt and pronounced differently to the actress) has his shot saved.
2.49 (1st period) America are doing very little to take advantage of their extra man at the moment.
4.00 (1st period) Carter has his shot blocked and that means we've had 25 shots on goal already in this first period. Marleau is penalised for holding. Naughty boy.
Here is an action shot of Sharp moments before testing out the padding on his backside:

5.06 (1st period) We are back to five v five and Canada continue to put the pressure on. Perry's shot on the backhand save is saved before Weber lines up a HUUUUUUGE effort from distance that pings wide. Canada are on the up.
6.45 (1st period) Can Canada use this powerplay? They are piling men forward and Quick is forced into making a brilliant save. And it looks as though the US will hold on until they have their full complement of players.
8.05 (1st period) It's a three-on-two. This is dangerous for Canada as they bring the puck forward before it is played in to Kunitz. The forward attempts to unleash hell, but he opens the metaphorical soda can in expectation and there is no fizz to propel his shot forward. Alas the attack comes to nothing. That's a let-off for the Americans. Moments later Suter is hit with a penalty for holding.
10.32 (1st period) This really is end-to-end stuff. Toews fires in a shot for Canada before the Americans hare straight down the other end. There's no hanging around here.
11.25 (1st period) Sharp moves forward quickly for the Canadians but Quick saves sharply. See what I did there? Clever, eh?
I hear you Tom:
<noframe>Twitter: Tom Castle - <a href="http://www.twitter.com/benbloomsport" target="_blank">@benbloomsport</a> To understand <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23USAvCanada" target="_blank">#USAvCanada</a>, USA=Man City to Canada=Man Utd. It doesn't often end well for the USA, but when it does: Glorious!</noframe>
12.32 (1st period) It's been a fairly even start to this semi-final but in my "expert" opinion I would say the Americans are on top. That will probably put a curse on them...
I thought this wasn't allowed in the Olympics:

13.50 (1st period) Oh super save from Price. The Americans knocked the puck around with ease as they advanced but the Canadian goaltender stuck his left hand up as the shot came in and held on well.
14.35 (1st period) Kaboom! That was the sound of Canada's Sharp being slammed into the boards.
15.47 (1st period) Body Rockers' song I Like The Way You Move blasts out around the Bolshoy Ice Dome. Just thought you might like to know.
16.30 (1st period) Carter picks up the puck in his own half. Still he advances. It's the Carter show as he skins his defender... but he can't quite get the shot away and the Canada attack comes to nothing.
18.03 (1st period) Here come the Canadians courtesy of Doughty who slip-slides left and right before forcing Quick to save well. And we have our first sighting of fisticuffs! Nothing too serious though so it's as you were out in Sochi.
18.43 (1st period) I'll set the scene: Canada are in red shooting left to right. America are in white and blue shooting (you guessed it) right to left. Kessel has an early break down the right for the US but it's a simple save for Price. That could have been dangerous for the Canadians though.
17.04 Here come the players and if you fancy knowing their names have a glance below:


<noframe>Twitter: Audrey Webb - <a href="http://www.twitter.com/benbloomsport" target="_blank">@benbloomsport</a> RT <a href="http://www.twitter.com/McNulty_Mike" target="_blank">@McNulty_Mike</a>: A hockey puck can be melted down and used in recipes as a substitute for molasses, with mixed results.</noframe>
16.53 Those of you in the States or Canada will be well aware of the Twitter hashtag #loserkeepsbieber. For our British audience, let me explain. The hashtag has been trending on Twitter since yesterday and a clever Chicago-based company created a sign that shows the 19-year-old brat singer between Canadian centre Jonathan Toews and US winger Patrick Kane. For those of you not in the know here are the facts: Bieber is Canadian. No one in their right mind likes him.

16.44 Do you know where the two referees for this match are from? No. Well I'll tell you. Brad Meier is from the US and Kelly Sutherland is Canadian. Really??? Am I the only one who can spot the opportunity for something to go wrong here?
16.34 Of course it could turn out that neither of these two teams take the gold medal and instead it goes to Sweden. The Swedes (coincidentally one of my favourite root vegetables) got the better of 2010 bronze medallists Finland earlier this afternoon in the other semi-final with goals from Erik Karlsson and Loui Eriksson booking their place in the final.
16.25
<noframe>Twitter: Jason Brough - Women's curling? Gold. Women's hockey? Gold. Men's curling? Gold. Men's hockey? NO PRESSURE, GUYS.</noframe>
The 2014 medal table currently has Norway at the top with 10 golds (22 medals), followed by Canada on 9 golds (23 medals) and USA who have 8 golds (25 medals). You know what that means don't you? If Canada can take men's hockey gold they will move into first place, while the US will leapfrog their main rivals if they take gold.
(N.B. Other gold medals are up for grabs before the men's hockey gold is awarded so the above statistic may prove to be incorrect... but I'm sticking with it because it works nicely and I am a sucker for statistics that look neat. So there.)
16.17 With apologies to any American readers, here is what victory/defeat looks like:

16.15 I'm sure you are well aware that the US men have a score to settle here after their female counterparts were defeated by the Canadians in the Olympic final yesterday. But that only tells half the story.
Meghan Duggan and Alex Carpenter had given the Americans a 2-0 advantage and, despite Brianne Jenner pulling one back, the US looked to be on track for their first hockey gold since 1998. Step up Marie-Philip Poulin. The Canadian forward first struck in the final minute of the third period before scoring the winner in overtime to break US hearts. Time for revenge? We shall see.
16.05 Why hello there. This is a pretty big deal isn't it? It's undefeated Canada against undefeated USA. And a little birdy has told me these two nations enjoy something of a rivalry in ice hockey. Which all means this should make for fun viewing (and if nothing else it will distract me from the frankly revolting tasting salami wrap I have just bought).
9.30 Ben Bloom will be here from 16.30 to talk you through the semifinal of the men's ice hockey competition at Sochi 2014, in which USA face Canada. In the meantime, why not read a match report of the USA's quarterfinal victory over the Czech Republic, which will begin now:
The United States rolled into the semi-finals of the men's ice hockey tournament with a 5-2 victory over the Czech Republic at the Sochi Olympics on Wednesday.
The 2010 silver medallists scored 99 seconds into the game and, despite a solid effort from the Czechs during a fast-paced opening period, were never really tested the rest of the way.
David Backes's goal with two seconds remaining in the first period, when he took advantage of a big bounce off the end board and scored from along the goal line, held up as the game winner.
The United States will now play Canada in one of Friday's two semi-finals. The game will be a rematch of the 2010 gold medal clash, which Canada won 3-2 in overtime.
Canada escaped with a nervy 2-1 quarter-final win over Latvia to keep their gold medal defence on track.
Despite dominating play and outshooting the plucky Latvians 57-16, Canada needed a late goal from Shea Weber to move onto the semi-finals, where they will take on the United States in a rematch of the 2010 Vancouver Games gold medal final.
After trading goals in the opening period, Canada threw everything they had at Latvia but could not find the winner until Weber blasted a low slap shot past netminder Kristers Gudlevskis with just under seven minutes to play.
Patrick Sharp had Canada's other goal while Lauris Darzins with his fourth of the tournament scored for Latvia.
