http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604252/s/3ce095cb/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Ccommonwealthgames0C10A992340A0CCommonwealth0EGames0E20A140ESarah0EClark0Ebows0Eout0Eof0Ejudo0Ewith0Egold0Emedal0Efor0EScotland0Bhtml/story01.htm
Commonwealth Games 2014: Sarah Clark bows out of judo with gold medal for Scotland
By Alasdair Reid and Ben Bloom, in Glasgow
11:26PM BST 25 Jul 2014
Comments
Sarah Clark brought her competitive career to the most satisfying conclusion possible last night as she took judo gold for Scotland in the women’s 63kg class in the SECC arena.
The 35-year-old Durham-born judoka moved to Edinburgh 18 years ago and qualified for her adopted country on residence grounds. She fought in the last three Olympics, but failed to secure a medal.
However, after a courageous comeback from injury, she ended her fighting days with victory over Helene Wezeu Dombeu before a rapturous Scottish crowd at these Commonwealth Games.
“All day I was pretty nervous,” admitted Clark. “But the last 10 months for me has been building up towards this.
"There were moments when I thought my body’s not going to make it. Even though you want to, you have bits falling off.
Gold was 'for freedom', cries Scotland's Wallace
New generation do England proud
Rowsell triumphs with power display
A shameless and brilliant bluff from Scotland’s Great Pretender
England sevens building for Rio
Tunnock's teacakes sales soar after Commonwealth Games opening ceremony
“That is what I came here to do. I have come out with the result I wanted. I feel like I have done it because of the crowd.
"My family, friends have come to see me. It is for them and for Scotland.
“My motivation was always there and to keep the momentum going for Scottish judo is fantastic. This will be my last competitive tournament for sure.”
Although Clark dominated the final, she confessed that she had felt apprehensive about her contest with Wezeu Dombeu as it approached.
“I’d never competed against her before but I watched her thought the day and she’s really strong,” said Clark, who overcame opponents from India and Australia on the way to her swansong final.
“It’s really hard, with things going through your head as the demons do.
"The win, the lose, the what-if. I’ve done a bit of work with my psychologist and even though I’ve gone over this a thousand times the doubts are always still there.
"But I couldn’t go out there any fitter than I was – even at my age!”
After a dramatic opening day in the judo hall, when sisters Kimberley and Louise Renicks both struck gold, it was a quieter second day for Scotland. The only other medal won by the host nation was taken by Sally Conway, who won bronze in the women’s 70kg class.
Earlier, Scotland had their first taste of success in the Sir Chris Hoy Velodrome when para-cyclist Neil Fachie and his pilot Craig MacLean won gold in the 1,000m time trail B2 tandem for visually impaired athletes.
Partially-sighted Fachie and partner MacLean were the last of five teams to go and, roared on by a capacity crowd including Hoy himself as well as comedian Billy Connolly, the pair clocked 1 min 2.096 sec.
That was enough to beat Australia’s Kieran Modra and Jason Niblett into second, while Wales’s Matt Ellis and Ieuan Williams took bronze.
As the pair completed their lap of honour around the track, Fachie unfurled the Scottish flag and held it aloft it in the direction of the man who leant the velodrome his name, with Hoy clapping his approval.
“It was a special day and we dug hard,” said 29-year-old Fachie, after becoming Paralympic, world and Commonwealth champion.
