http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/604252/s/22f9d098/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Colympics0Cjudo0C95150A640CParalympics0E20A120ESam0EIngram0Ewins0Ejudo0Esilver0Efor0EBritain0Bhtml/story01.htm
Paralympics 2012: Sam Ingram wins judo silver for Britain
By Edward Malnick
9:15PM BST 01 Sep 2012
Comments
Just six years after taking up judo due to the influence of his brother, Sam Ingram left his elder sibling behind on Saturday night to win silver - his second Paralympics medal.
While Joe, 30, was knocked out in the 100kg quarter finals, Sam, 27, pressed on to the 90kg final where he was watched by Lord Coe, chairman of Locog, the Olympics organising committee. In the final, however, Ingram was unable to beat his Cuban opponent Jorge Hierrezuelo Marcillis.
The medal marked the end of an emotional day at the ExCel for the two brothers from Coventry, who were both born with conal dystrophy, a genetic eye condition which means they can only see in black and white and have no central vision.
They were one half of the “band of brothers” in Britain’s five-strong Paralympic judo squad. The other set of siblings, Marc and Dan Powell, were knocked out of the competition without any medals, although they promised to come back “bigger and better”.
Sam Ingram, who now lives in Edinburgh where he trains at the Edinburgh International Climbing Arena, is unable to drive a car because of his condition and is very short-sighted. He goes by the nickname “Mole” because, “my eyesight is rubbish and I’ve got a hairy face.”
Silver lining for Ingram
Powell brothers: 'we'll be back' in Rio
Paralympics 2012: world champion throws off defeat to gain bronze
Miller suffers curse of the captain
Whitehead dedicates to late mentor
Paralympics 2012:Champion’s ovation for straggler Houssein Omar Hassan
As a child he moved from Alderman Callow school, now the Westwood Academy, in Coventry, to Exhall Grange, a specialist school for children with visual and other physical and sensory impairments.
At Exhall Grange he played goalball, a Paralympic sport for blind and partially sighted people involving a ball containing bells.
He first tried judo as a result of the influence of Joe, who took up the martial art while at university, and decided it was the sport he wanted to pursue.
But he was unable to take up the sport seriously while studying broadcasting at University College Falmouth, where there were few serious judo clubs in the area.
After completing his degree he wasted no time preparing for competitions and won a bronze medal at the Beijing Paralympics in 2008, although his brother narrowly failed to qualify.
However, the pair’s parents, Geoff and Jackie, enjoyed a proud moment in 2010 when both of their sons were awarded silver medals at the world championships in Turkey.
Sam, who earlier yesterday beat Argentinian veteran Jorge Lencina to make the final, has described his achievements with significant understatement.
“A lot of visually impaired people end up getting pigeon-holed and institutionalised, but I think the best way to go about life is to try to lead it as normally as possible,” he said after winning a silver medal at the 2008 world championships in Brazil.
Asked to name the most important mental attribute needed to succeed in his sport he has said: “The golden rule is never give an inch and never back down.”
His defeat in Saturday night’s final is unlikely to cause him much anguish. Asked recently what it is like to be around him when he loses a match, he replied: “No one likes a whinger in judo, so you’ve got to take a defeat on the chin.”
