http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/571009/s/1d6a504e/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Cculture0Ctvandradio0Cbbc0C91415450CClare0EBalding0Eapologises0Eover0Emouth0Esmashing0Erival0Ein0Eschool0Elacrosse0Ematch0Bhtml/story01.htm
Clare Balding 'apologises over mouth smashing rival in school lacrosse match'
By Andrew Hough
6:30AM GMT 14 Mar 2012
The 41 year-old admitted she “smashed” her unidentified sporting rival, during a match between their schools, Downe House and Wycombe Abbey more than two decades ago.
The former champion lady amateur rider, who is now the corporation’s face of horse racing, admitted she took the phrase “attack is the best form of defence” to an extreme during the game.
Balding, a former head girl at Downe House, the £28,875 a-year girls boarding school near Thatcham, Berks, did not name the schoolgirl or disclose when it occurred.
In a candid interview with Country Life, published on Wednesday, she admitted there was “added spice” at lacrosse games between the rival schools.
This was due to her headmistress at the time, Suzanne Farr, a former England international, arriving from the “rival school”, the £30,600 a-year all-girls boarding school in High Wycombe, Bucks.
Clare Balding 'no threat to wives'
BBC star Clare Balding says 'sexist’ broadcasters ignore sportswomen
Clare Balding: I've tried too hard to be what I'm not
Miranda Hart: the life and times of the comedian
In light-hearted comments to the magazine for a feature on “school rivalries”, Balding, a former president of the Cambridge University Union, said: “Miss Farr had come from Wycombe Abbey, so there was always added spice to our lacrosse matches.
“Obviously, she was particularly keen that we should beat Wycombe Abbey and warned us that they could be dirty.
"I rather overdid the ‘attack is the best form of defence’ and smashed a Wycombe girl in the mouth. I apologise now to her and her parents, who footed the dental bill.”
The daughter of horse trainer Ian Balding jokingly added: “At the All England Schools Championships, it didn’t really matter if we won the title or not, as long as we beat Wycombe.
“When the exam results came out, we checked ours against Wycombe Abbey. When the Oxbridge lists came out, our success rate only mattered in comparison with Wycombe.
“We never poisoned their food or anything. Well, we might have talked about it, but we didn’t do it. So that’s OK — isn’t it?”
A friend of Balding's later described said the interview as “tongue in cheek”. On Tuesday Miss Farr, now 75, laughed when told of the incident although she could not remember it occurring.
The former headmistress, who retired from the school in 1989 said described Balding as a “good games player”, who excelled in her role as head pupil.
Miss Farr, who now breeds miniature donkeys at her home in How Caple, Herefordshire, said the school enjoyed a healthy rivalry with Wycombe Abbey.
“There is no point playing sport unless you’re competitive,” she told The Daily Telegraph.
“We were very keen to win. The school could not care less when I first went there but as we got better and had more successful, the more we won. There is no medicine like success.”
Balding “married” her partner, newsreader Alice Arnold, in a civil partnership ceremony in 2006 and the couple share a home in west London.
In 2009, she joked on camera that winning jockey Liam Treadwell needed to get his teeth fixed and later apologised.
That same year, Balding, a former Sports Presenter of the Year, was diagnosed with thyroid cancer which was successfully treated. She returned to work shortly afterwards and this year she will be one of the hosts of the BBC's Olympics coverage.
Downe House is where the Duchess of Cambridge is said to have left after allegedly being bullied and its former pupils include her sister Pippa Middleton, Lady Gabriella Windsor, model Sophie Dahl and comedienne Miranda Hart. A spokesman for Balding declined to comment.
* The full story can be seen in Country Life Magazine out on Wednesday
