http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569252/s/43218b28/sc/10/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Cireland0C113971380CIreland0Eare0Eriding0Ethe0Ecrest0Eof0Ea0Ewave0Ethanks0Eto0Etheir0Esingle0Eminded0Ecoach0EJoe0ESchmidt0Bhtml/story01.htm
Ireland are riding the crest of a wave thanks to their single-minded coach Joe Schmidt
By Oliver Brown
8:36PM GMT 06 Feb 2015
Comments
The only way Ireland’s players could tell that Joe Schmidt had appendicitis was because he was acting, in captain Paul O’Connell’s words, “kind of stand-offish”. Not, perhaps, the default reaction to a condition that often necessitates surgery and leaves most sufferers creased in agony. Then again, any of Schmidt’s charges would vouch that his first thought is never for himself.
When his appendix ruptured only hours before Ireland were due to play Australia last autumn, his abiding concern was to ensure he did not allow the illness to affect the team. In his manner and his methods, in his obstinate refusal to dwell upon his own hardships or his contribution in shaping the defending Six Nations champions into the third best team on Earth, the shrewd New Zealander is not so much self-effacing as self-erasing.
All of which makes the fleshing-out of Schmidt the man a vexed and painstaking task. Usually one might first find the flaws, but a unifying feature of his career, from his days at Bay of Plenty to the Blues in Auckland, from playing Vern Cotter’s understudy at Clermont-Auvergne to sealing back-to-back Heineken Cup triumphs with Leinster, is that nobody has an unkind word to say about the man. His press conferences, similarly, offer nothing beyond cold Kiwi coach-speak. And yet still waters run deep.
It was a blink-and-you-would-miss-it moment, but Schmidt recently shone one light upon his hidden hinterland in disclosing his admiration for Irish literary titan Seamus Heaney.
He had been speaking at a Dublin business lunch attended by Heaney, when the event’s organisers asked the Nobel laureate if he would good enough to give Schmidt a couple of paperback copies of his latest poetry collection, Human Chain. Heaney, happy to oblige, handed over two hardbacks instead. “I will treasure the moment,” Schmidt told Sean O’Rourke, of RTE Radio. “Anyone who can master the discipline of writing well and go beyond it to writing even better stuff is someone who is impressive.”
Sexton straight into firing line on Ireland return
How will your team play in the Six Nations?
Six Nations will set tone for World Cup
Game has changed but Six Nations is always magical
By the same token, anybody who can master the craft of coaching and take an international rugby team far beyond their previously accepted limits is worthy of further study.
When Schmidt took over from Declan Kidney in 2013, Ireland had just experienced their worst Six Nations finish for 14 years. Barely six months later, they held a 19-0 lead against New Zealand. The scalding manner of that eventual defeat, sealed by an Aaron Cruden conversion in one of the most extraordinary climaxes ever seen at Landsdowne Road, redoubled Irish resolve. A Six Nations Championship soon followed, to give the retiring Brian O’Driscoll the perfect valediction.

In the autumn series they became, even with Schmidt en route to hospital in excruciating pain, the sole northern hemisphere side to vanquish both South Africa and Australia. They are not favourites to seal their first back-to-back titles since 1983 for nothing.
Schmidt’s compass as a coach is precisely calibrated. In Ireland’s training sessions at Carton House, their bucolic retreat in County Kildare, he surveys the scene with apparent omniscience, striding out in the middle to correct the slightest individual fault. But it is telling that he never loses his temper. He is placid yet perfectionist, measured yet meticulous.
A clue here might be found in the challenges that Schmidt has had to confront at home with his 11-year-old son Luke, diagnosed with severe epilepsy from the age of four. Luke, who can be hit by as many as 15 seizures a day, has had to abandon his own rugby ambitions on doctors’ advice. “He is not allowed to play any longer, because of the amount of surgery he has had,” Schmidt said. “It is something he has learnt to cope with.”
On Monday, 48 hours after Ireland’s first Six Nations confrontation against Italy at the Stadio Olimpico in Rome, Schmidt will be a face of the first International Epilepsy Day, offering practical advice on how to treat a young child’s seizures. His adaptation to the family predicament with Luke’s health translates into a clear streak of selflessness in a rugby context. Forever understating his role in Ireland’s success, he claimed after masterminding the recent defeat of South Africa that he was “just an interested observer who puts a few subs on”.
His genius lies not simply in the fact that he manages, largely, to stay in the shadows unnoticed, but that his scrupulous lack of hyperbole encourages his audience to believe that Ireland are capable of even greater things. One Sunday newspaper, for instance, ranked the Irish team four points worse than Australia’s. And they won.
It is for this reason that Schmidt tosses aside all casual talk of Ireland as Six Nations front-runners. “For us to be favourites is a distraction,” he said. “It’s just somebody’s speculation.”
Quietly, though, he works at encouraging his players with a tirelessness that has drawn the praise of star fly-half Jonathan Sexton. “He prepares the team well and makes our job easier,” the No 10 said. “Some coaches judge on the outcome rather than the decision. If I decide to run the ball and we have an overlap, then that is the right decision for Joe. And if the guys on the outside drop it, that will be their fault, not mine. It’s great that I go into the game with a clear mind as to what he is looking for. A few of our players say that you play the game with two voices in your head – your own, and his commentary. Make a mistake and you know you are going to hear about it on Monday morning.”
Schmidt’s Monday review classes have been notorious for their forensic detail since his time at Leinster, where he transformed an erratic team excessively reliant upon the magic of O’Driscoll into the most dead-eyed finishers in Europe. O’Connell, not one to suffer fools gladly, argues emphatically that Schmidt is the finest coach he has played under in his 13-year international career. Such is the love-in that he has generated in Ireland, it is tempting to wonder whether the mood around this side has peaked too soon – especially as a second successive title is likely to stir frenzied optimism over their World Cup prospects.
But Schmidt has the unflappability of one supremely confident in his vision. After the agony of that last-gasp defeat by New Zealand, he could scarcely have been sanguine. “You have to be prepared to defend until the final seconds and we weren’t,” he said. “We have to live with that now.”
On reflection, it is remarkable how closely that sentiment echoes the wisdom of a certain Seamus Heaney. “Even if the last move did not succeed,” Schmidt’s literary idol wrote, “the inner command says move again.”
