Wasps swoop for New Zealand wing Frank Halai
By Gavin Mairs
11:46PM GMT 16 Jan 2015
Comments
Wasps are understood to have signed Frank Halai, the All Blacks wing who was top try-scorer in Super Rugby last year, The Daily Telegraph can reveal.
Halai, who first came to prominence as one of the stars of New Zealand’s sevens side, is set to join the Aviva Premiership club from the Auckland Blues at the end of the World Cup in late October on a long-term deal.
The capture of such an exciting, game-breaking talent will be seen as one of the key planks in growing Wasps’ fan base in their new home at the Ricoh Arena in Coventry since their move from High Wycombe last month.
Halai has been compared to former All Black star Jonah Lomu – he is 6ft 5in and 17st –, and is widely regarded as one of the most potent finishers in the southern hemisphere.
The 26-year-old was capped for the All Blacks in the 54-6 victory over Japan in November 2013 at the end of his first full season in Super Rugby and he scored 10 tries for the Blues last season. He also made 30 appearances and scored 12 tries for his provincial side Counties Manukau.
Saints scramble to victory
Leicester advert opens up turf war with Wasps
Burgess bags try in Bath victory
Wasps revival is built on irresistible power trio
Halai will be seen as a high-profile replacement for Tom Varndell, who is set to join Bristol at the end of the season.
He should bring an extra attacking dimension to Young’s side, who have already signed another New Zealander, fly-half Jimmy Gopperth, from Leinster for next season.
The signing of Halai, which is expected to be confirmed next week, continuess the influx of New Zealanders in the Premiership next season.
London Irish this week confirmed that Tom Coventry, the Waikato Chiefs assistant coach, would replace Brian Smith as head coach, with All Blacks prop Ben Franks also joining, while Gloucester completed a deal for All Blacks second row Jeremy Thrush.
Meanwhile, Scotland have confirmed they will face Ireland, Italy and France in a four-match warm-up schedule for the World Cup. They will play on consecutive Saturdays from Aug 15, starting with a trip to Dublin. They then face a double header against Italy in Turin and Edinburgh before completing their preparations in Paris.

