http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569111/s/4472c45b/sc/7/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0C114753780CPremiership0Econfirm0Eplan0Eto0Escrap0Erelegation0Eand0Esay0Eit0Ewill0Ebenefit0EEngland0Bhtml/story01.htm
Premiership confirm plan to scrap relegation and say it will benefit England
By Ben Rumsby, Sports News Correspondent
2:45PM GMT 16 Mar 2015
Comments
Scrapping Premiership relegation could help England at future World Cups, the head of the English top flight has claimed after admitting the radical plan was being explored.
Premiership Rugby chief executive Mark McCafferty confirmed Telegraph Sport’s revelation that the country’s elite clubs had discussed expanding the competition from 12 to 14 teams and ending promotion and relegation.
But he said what would be the biggest overhaul of club rugby since the game went professional 20 years ago may only be used as a temporary measure “over two or three years” ahead of talks with the Rugby Football Union on the controversial proposal.
After also confirming Telegraph Sport’s exclusive that Premiership Rugby had signed a contract extension until 2021 with broadcast partner BT Sport, McCafferty said: “There’s no definitive timescale in place, but it’s very much on the agenda for discussions at the moment.”
Premiership rugby will be on BT Sport until 2021
Premiership clubs and the RFU are already renegotiating the heads of agreement deal that covers releasing players for international matches.
“No doubt it will form part of those discussions,” McCafferty added. “I think there’s little doubt now that you need time to prepare to be a Premiership club, to be competitive on all fronts, both on and off the field.
“And, therefore, one of the more attractive ideas that has been mooted in the past is that perhaps there is a period of time during which there is no relegation, and that we expand the league carefully over two or three years without relegation.
“That allows clubs then to really make the investment on and off the pitch, which is going to give them the best possible chance to be competitive.
•Who made our Six Nations team of the weekend?
•Will Owen Farrell ever play for England again?
“So we are looking at the possibility of ways in which you might create that time, to invest properly.
“All of this, including the extended deal with BT and the money that brings into the club game, all of that will help without a shadow of a doubt the performance of the national team.
“And that will not only be in the short term but in the medium term, through this World Cup and into Japan in 2019.
“At the basic level we’ve invested extensively in the academies, and that has helped significantly towards England winning back-to-back Junior World Cups.
The England team would benefit from the scrapping of relegation, according to the Premiership
“That is probably the strongest evidence of the conveyor belt of English talent continuing to come through the clubs and ultimately providing the senior England team with increasing depth of choice in player selection.”
McCafferty also admitted Premiership Rugby’s longest-ever broadcasting rights deal with BT could lead to another rise in the competition’s salary cap.
“We’ve got the salary cap levels in place for the 2015-16 season next year, and we will start discussions with the clubs over the next few months on the cap for 2016-17 onwards,” he said.
“No doubt the new BT deal gives us some certainty against which to plan those discussions.”
Premiership chiefs netted £152million when agreeing their first deal with BT Sport in 2012, and this new extension is expected to command a sizeable increase overall.
Premiership clubs continue to battle the lure of big-money moves to France in the bid to retain their top stars.
The salary cap is already set to rise to £5.1million for 2015-16, with clubs able to gain £400,000 in credits for the number of home-grown players in their squad.
They will also be able to nominate two marquee players, whose salaries are not included in the cap.
