http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569111/s/4462be02/sc/39/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Cengland0C114721550CEngland0Ev0EScotland0ECalcutta0ECup0Erivalry0Eis0Enow0Ea0Emyth0Esays0ESir0EClive0EWoodward0Bhtml/story01.htm
England v Scotland: Calcutta Cup rivalry is now a myth, says Sir Clive Woodward
By Telegraph Sport
10:21AM GMT 14 Mar 2015
Comments
Sir Clive Woodward, England's former world cup winning coach, has said the country's rivalry against Scotland is "mostly myth and hype" as it has been so long since the Scots looked like winning at Twickenham.
Scotland lost against Italy at Murrayfield in the last round of RBS Six Nations matches and are big underdogs in their game against England in London on Saturday.
Ahead of the game, Wooward criticised both camps for talking up the game.
He said that the claim by England forwards coach Graham Rowntree that his side could win by "many" was a "hostage to fortune and feeds the stereotype that England are arrogant, which I don’t believe we are".
Hostage to fortune: Graham Rowntree says England could win heavily
But he was also critical of the Scots, adding in his Daily Mail column: "Then we have Scotland’s Stuart Hogg, a brilliant player - on the back of losing to Italy at home, a run of 15 games at Twickenham without a win and the last seven games conceding on average 36 points - saying England do not respect Scotland.

"You earn respect by winning big games and Scotland’s performance against Italy suggests it was they who were guilty of not respecting their opponents.
"It’s time for them to look in the mirror, regain composure and forget the old stereotypes.
•Will Greenwood: England need brain to match brawn
•Brown proud to set example on concussion
"It has been a long time since I have seen a Scottish side play with a real threat of winning at Twickenham and as a result the rivalry has inevitably diminished and is mostly myth and hype.
"I really do hope they make a game of it or the Mexican wave could be on us after 20 minutes."
He added that after a promising start under coach Vern Cotter Scotland were "looking increasingly desperate."
Under pressure: Vern Cotter's side are looking 'desperate' according to Woodward
