http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569111/s/44600f29/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Csixnations0C1147180A60CSix0ENations0E20A150EIreland0Eface0Etoughest0Etest0Eagainst0EWales0Ein0Ebid0Efor0Ehistory0Bhtml/story01.htm
Six Nations 2015: Ireland face 'toughest test' against Wales in bid for history
By James Corrigan
11:59PM GMT 13 Mar 2015
Comments
Several numbers will swirl around the Millennium Stadium air for the Irish to grasp – Paul O’Connell’s 100th cap, Jonathan Sexton’s 50th cap – but the collective focus will be on just one: 11. For that is the Joe Schmidt way.
Individual garlands do not matter to the Ireland’s coach as his Six Nations leaders chase a greater prize. The Grand Slam can wait; first the record of 10 successive wins, set in 2002-03, must be broken. “This is an opportunity to do what no Irish team has ever done in the history of the game,” the New Zealander said.
Indeed it is, and all Guinness trucks would then head to Murrayfield for what many might prematurely assume – given the fact that Scotland have beaten Ireland on two of the past three occasions they have played them in Edinburgh – would be the formality of a second Grand Slam in six years. Yet do not expect Schmidt’s Ireland to get ahead of themselves.
They are personified by their captain, the mighty 35-year-old O’Connell, who joins Brian O’Driscoll, Ronan O’Gara and John Hayes in the Irish centurion club. The indefatigable lock is not prone to sentiment but can be cajoled into a little nostalgia and after his squad’s run-out in the Cardiff citadel he remembered the first of his caps, which also happened to be against Wales.
O'Connell leads Ireland on the captain's run (GETTY IMAGES)
“I was sharing a room with Peter Clohessy and the first thing I smelt when I woke up was cigarette smoke,” O’Connell said. “Peter had to light up as soon as he woke up. Yeah, a lot has changed since then.”
Hasn’t it just, although O’Connell would not mind the same scoreline – 54-10. The chances of that occurring are close to minimal in a game which is likely to live up to the modern reputation. Wales, for all their attacking ambitions, are resigned to it.
“I’m not too sure about that,” was the reply from Robin McBryde, the Wales forwards coach, when asked if the supporters would see an open game. “There’s a lot of stake, Ireland are on course for a Grand Slam and just to get away from Cardiff with a win, that’s all they will be looking to do. It’s going to be an arm-wrestle for 80 minutes and that’s what we’ve prepared for.
• Wales v Ireland - which team is stronger? • Wales v Ireland: the tetchy Celtic rivalry • Warren Gatland 'has brain capacity of tub of Flora'
“Any attractive rugby will come second. That’s the nature of the game at the moment and that’s how teams are wearing each other down and unfortunately the spectators have got to pay a price for that.”
It was an honest, if depressing, assessment which tallies perfectly with the remarks of Steve Hansen, the New Zealand coach, after watching Ireland beat England two weekends ago. He warned the game was becoming “boring”, saying that the paucity of tries in a defence-dominated era would drive away the fans.
In his column in The Daily Telegraph on Friday, Austin Healey, the former Lions wing, went further, pointing the finger directly at Ireland. “They have led the way, pursuing a style that is very effective but is aesthetically pretty turgid,” he wrote.
The Welsh sounded as if they would agree, although, in truth, they were simply relieved that the opposing camp were getting some flak after Neil Francis, the former Irish lock, accused Warren Gatland of having “the intellectual capacity of a tub of Flora” – an insult sure to spread across the rugby world.
For their part, Ireland are unashamed in playing to their strengths, with Schmidt saying “one of the great things about the game is that you can play to different aspects, that the game embraces a whole lot of different shapes and sizes and skill-sets”.
Ireland's style of play under Joe Schmidt has been called boring (GETTY IMAGES)
O”Connell even claimed it could be a classic. “I think we have played a lot of rugby under Joe, maybe not as much as we would have liked in recent times, but I think it will be a cracking game,” he said. “Certainly Wales want to play, we want to play, so there could be some great rugby.”
Cracking, of course, does not necessarily mean entertaining and the strength of the two defences makes a seat-raising scenario highly unlikely. Ireland have conceded one try in this Six Nations and will very likely try to inflict on Wales the same kicking and rolling-maul hell of 12 months ago. Expect Jonathan Sexton to find the gaps between the defensive line and Leigh Halfpenny at full-back and an aerial battle between the best two back-three units in the Six Nations.
There is a suspicion in Wales that Sexton and Jamie Heaslip may have been rushed back from hamstring and back injuries respectively and a premature departure for the former, in particular, could have a huge impact. Conor Murray and Sexton took England apart with their kicking game and much will be expected from the Wales half-backs, Rhys Webb and Dan Biggar.

In the wins against Scotland and France, the Ospreys half-backs developed and prospered, just as the entire Garland team did, most notably in the back row, where Sam Warburton – who captains Wales for a record 34th time – has hinted at a return to his very best. This familiar improvement, which brought the title in 2013 title after defeat in the opening game, is why O’Connell is expecting Ireland’s toughest test of the campaign.
“I don’t think England played well against us and of all the teams Wales, later in the championship, playing at home – we’re going to come across a great side that are probably going to play great,” O’Connell said. “That’s going to be a bigger challenge I think than England, given the performance they produced two weeks ago.”
If Ireland succeed then forget about the “pretty” or “ugly” verdicts. One person’s turgid is another person’s torrid and yet another’s tantalising. History recalls the achievement and not the adjective.
