http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569111/s/44549b8a/sc/36/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0C114686870CRFUs0Eagreement0Ewith0EChampionship0Eclubs0Eleaves0Eopen0Epossibility0Eof0Eending0Epromotion0Eto0Ethe0EPremiership0Bhtml/story01.htm
RFU’s agreement with Championship clubs leaves open possibility of ending promotion to the Premiership
By Daniel Schofield
7:52PM GMT 12 Mar 2015
Comments
The RFU’s new five-year agreement with Championship clubs leaves open the possibility of ending promotion to the Premiership.
As The Daily Telegraph revealed last month, the Premiership Rugby have drawn up plans to introduce ringfencing. Thursday’s deal, which will result in the RFU increasing their level of funding to English rugby’s second tier through to the summer of 2020, was drawn up independently of that development, but does contain a provision that would allow the agreement to be renegotiated.
• Promotion and relegation is an integral part of English rugby
“What we have decided between the clubs and the RFU is that we do our deal, do it a year early, but we have left a provision in there that if something happens in the next 12-18 months with regards to the PRL [Premiership Rugby], the RFU and the Championship, which has a significant or material effect upon the Championship then we can revisit it,” Geoff Irvine, chairman of the Championship, said. “At the moment, we don’t know what PRL are up to. The only communication I have had is that they want to talk to us.
Exeter have been cited as a reason for sticking with promotion and relegation (REX FEATURES)
“We have left the door open. Whatever their plans, they realise that they will need the cooperation of all of the stakeholders – the RFU and the Championship – if they want to achieve whatever it is they want to achieve. The only way in my view, that PRL could possibly get their own way is if they went to the game in general and said this is what the two professional leagues want and the RFU support it.”
• English rugby's promotion and relegation controversy: The key questions answered
Billy Twelvetrees is one of many players who learnt their trade in the Championship (ACTION IMAGES)
Much of the increased funding will go towards player medical insurance and improving facilities with clubs required to field 16 English Qualified Players in their matchday squads. Many of the England squad learnt their trade in the second tier, including Tom Youngs who was converted from a centre to a hooker at Nottingham, and Irvine, also the chairman of Bedford Blues, says the new agreement is just reward for the Championship’s contribution to English rugby.
“There is no doubting now the value of the Championship and the part it plays in developing young English Qualified Players,” he said. “I was in Cardiff when we beat Wales and at the dinner afterwards I am looking at Dan Cole, Billy Twelvetrees and George Kruis who all played at Bedford."
