http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569111/s/443ab409/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Csixnations0C11460A9190CBilly0ETwelvetrees0Ethe0Emost0Efrustrating0Eplayer0Ein0EEngland0Bhtml/story01.htm
Billy Twelvetrees - the most frustrating player in England
By Steve James
10:17AM GMT 10 Mar 2015
Comments
There cannot be a more frustrating player in English rugby. At inside centre he has it all, the physical attributes, the energy, the desire, the kicking game and the passing game.
England would love him to wear their No 12 jersey because he suits their ideal of a second playmaker in the back division, but he simply cannot nail the consistency required.
Even as a replacement that is the case. Against Wales his cameo appearance was superb. He was more than decent when playing most of the game against Italy. Then against Ireland it all went wrong.
Billy Twelvetrees was superb playing for Gloucester against Northampton. Source GETTY IMAGES
But it was interesting to be at Kingsholm last Saturday when he was back to his best, playing a hugely influential part in Gloucester's 33-33 draw with Northampton. He is clearly hugely liked and admired there.
"Billy brings a huge energy to this group," said director of rugby, David Humphreys. "He is the captain. He knows his responsibility. We could easily have said, because of the week he had, that he would miss out, but it sums up what makes him such an important part of the squad that he wanted to play. He's had a tough week, but I thought he brought that energy and intensity to the game."
The truth is, though, that England's conundrum at 12 continues. After Luther Burrell struggled in Dublin, Brad Barritt was inked in to return against Scotland this Saturday before his injury for Saracens on Sunday scuppered that.
England felt they lacked a hard edge in Dublin and wanted Barritt to restore that. He was outstanding in his last Test against Australia at outside centre, but England could hardly drop Jonathan Joseph now after his stunning start to the Championship, so inside centre it would've had to have been for Barritt.

Kyle Eastmond appears down in the pecking order, unsurprising given that he did not take his chances in New Zealand last summer or during the autumn internationals. And I have expressed reservations before about playing the Bath trio of George Ford, Eastmond and Jonathan Joseph at international level.
But now, to much excitement, Exeter's 21-year-old Henry Slade has been called into the squad instead of Barritt. Already he looks like the type of player who fits the mould that Twelvetrees so struggles to fit into consistently. He is big enough, he kicks well, he passes well.
With Burrell likely to retain his place by default now, should Stuart Lancaster just throw Slade in above Twelvetrees as a replacement?
I don't think so. Not yet. It is good that Slade has moved from outside centre to fly-half for Exeter recently. And it could be argued that when he was wearing the 13 jersey, with Sam Hill at 12, he was standing at first receiver much of the time. But he has not played enough at 12 yet for me.
Henry Slade can play at centre and fly-half. Source REX FEATURES
That was what Lancaster was talking about when he said: "You are going to have to generate training time for him before you throw him into an international game."
Slade's time will come, probably after the Rugby World Cup. For now England will look to coax more consistency out of Burrell and Twelvetrees, with, of course, the return of Manu Tuilagi looming on the horizon.
But, looking ahead, do they go the more physical route at 12 in the manner of Burrell, Barritt or Tuilagi or do they take the play-maker option of Twelvetrees, Eastmond or Slade? Or is Twelvetrees the only one who could play both those roles, if it were not for that damned inconsistency in his decision-making?
