http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/569111/s/4434d661/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Crugbyunion0Cinternational0Csixnations0C11460A20A10CSix0ENations0E20A150EEngland0Epair0EBrad0EBarritt0Eand0ETom0ECroft0Eruled0Eout0Eof0Etournament0Ewith0Einjuries0Bhtml/story01.htm
Six Nations 2015: England pair Brad Barritt and Tom Croft ruled out of tournament with injuries
By Gavin Mairs
7:35PM GMT 09 Mar 2015
Comments
Brad Barritt, the Saracens centre, and Leicester Tigers flanker Tom Croft have been ruled out of the remainder of England’s Six Nations Championship campaign.
Barritt had been expected to replace Luther Burrell, the Northampton centre, in the starting XV to face Scotland at Twickenham on Sunday but picked up an ankle injury in the second half of Saracens’ victory over Wasps at the Ricoh Arena on Sunday.
Croft, who was on the bench for England's first three games, meanwhile is ruled out with a dislocated shoulder he sustained during Leicester's victory over Newcastle on Sunday.
Tom Croft is ruled out with a dislocated shoulder (ACTION IMAGES)
Exeter Chiefs’ Henry Slade was called into the squad on Monday night as cover for Barritt while Burrell has recovered from a calf problem to return to full training on Tuesday along with Harlequins full-back Mike Brown, who missed the defeat by Ireland because of concussion.
Bath centre Sam Burgess has also joined the squad to gain further experience following his high-profile switch from rugby league but is not under consideration for selection.
“Brad has what's being described as a high ankle sprain and will be out for the last two games for definite,” said Stuart Lancaster, the England head coach.
“We still hadn't met as a coaching team yet, but clearly he was in contention because he played so well for us in the QBE Internationals.
Brad Barritt had been expected to start at centre against Scotland (GETTY IMAGES)
“We hadn't made the final decision and we wouldn't have made that this evening, but no decision will be made now because he's not available.
“Luther has made good progress and is hopefully fit to train tomorrow. Mike Brown came through well on Friday and just with those injuries, we're going to bring Henry Slade into training to replace Brad.
“Sam Burgess will come in for the two days as well just to get some more experience with Bath not having a game this weekend.”
Henry Thomas has also been ruled out for the remainder of the championship after sustaining an injury to his AC joint although Kieran Brookes will be fit to train on Tuesday.
