http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/648508/s/417840e4/sc/7/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Csports0Epersonality0Eof0Ethe0Eyear0C1129560A30CRory0EMcIlroy0ESPOTY0Esnub0Eis0Enot0Ebecause0EI0Echose0EIreland0Bhtml/story01.htm
Rory McIlroy: SPOTY snub is not because I chose Ireland
By Ben Rumsby
10:00PM GMT 15 Dec 2014
Comments
Rory McIlroy has refused to blame his failure to win the BBC Sports Personality of the Year award on his decision not to represent Great Britain at the Olympic Games.
Not since his collapse at the 2011 Masters has McIlroy been on the wrong end of such a spectacular upset than that which delivered the BBC award to Lewis Hamilton in the public vote on Sunday night.
The outcome at the ceremony in Glasgow prompted questions as to why one of the all-time great seasons in golf was not rewarded with one of Britain’s most prestigious sporting accolades. The possibility that McIlroy’s decision to compete for the Republic of Ireland when golf makes its Olympic return in 2016 had some bearing on the vote could hardly be ruled out.
One reason McIlroy, 25, was such a strong favourite with the bookmakers was that he was expected to galvanise Northern Ireland’s 1.8 million population into picking up the phone.
As it turned out, barely 120,000 of the entire UK backed him, raising the question over whether his change of allegiance played a part in his ­finishing behind Hamilton. “I don’t think it’s a question of how British I feel,” McIlroy said. “I think it’s a question of how people view me. And just because I declared for one country and not another, it doesn’t make a difference.”
Golf, not Rory McIlroy, has lost its popularity
...and why McIlroy was victim of daylight robbery
Why Hamilton was a worthy winner of SPOTY
Golfers brand McIlroy's SPOTY snub 'a joke'
If not nationality, what about perceptions of golf as a sport? Only two golfers have claimed the Sports Personality prize, with Nick Faldo the last.
Unlike Formula One, which is still broadcast throughout the year on terrestrial television, golf has migrated almost exclusively to pay television.
The sport is also still seen as somewhat elitist, while it was only this year that golf’s governing body finally voted to end its 260-year ban on women members. “I don’t think it’s the sport,” ­McIlroy said. “No, I don’t think there’s any sort of problem.
“Participation is down a little bit but viewership of golf is up. So, it’s not like people don’t want to watch golf or don’t want to tune in. But I think just getting people started at the grassroots level is where we need to start off and sort of go from there.”
The sport certainly has the ideal poster boy in which to do that, with McIlroy saying all the right things in defeat on Sunday.
“Lewis had a fantastic year so I’ve no complaints with that,” he said. “Second world championship, dominated the Formula One season, had some great battles with his team‑mate.
“I still got a lot of support out there. To finish second is still a great achievement. Hopefully, if I can achieve just as much, or if not more, next year, hopefully I can go one better.”
Becoming the first European to win the career grand slam at the Masters next year would surely be enough to win the public around. “The Masters is obviously the next big goal of mine,” McIlroy said.
“It’s the only one not sitting in my trophy room. So, it’s the one that I want. I want to get a green jacket. Just to go to Augusta next year at the age of 25 and try to complete the career grand slam – something only five players ever in our game have done – it’s going to be a huge thrill, something I’ll relish and something I’ll really try to embrace.”
