http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/572077/s/3e43df26/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cengland0C110A832510CSwitzerland0Ev0EEngland0EEuro0E20A160Equalifying0EFive0Ethings0Ewe0Elearned0Ein0EBasle0Bhtml/story01.htm
Wayne Rooney is England's captain but Raheem Sterling is the team's most important player
By Jason Burt, Basle
9:15AM BST 09 Sep 2014
Comments
1. Sterling is central to this team
Though only 19, Raheem Sterling is England's most important player. Wayne Rooney is the captain and biggest 'name’ but Sterling is the centre of the team. This formation – with a midfield diamond – was aimed at getting him on the ball as often as possible. At times, the strikers split, with Rooney left and Danny Welbeck on the right, to create even more room for Sterling to drive through the centre and use his pace and trickery and ability to keep the ball. He was quick to create opportunities and has the directness to frighten defenders, as he showed time and again and with Welbeck’s goal.
2. Only one side of the defence is safe
They have got the right side of their defence right, with Gary Cahill and, encouragingly, 20-year-old John Stones on his competitive debut both aggressive and positive and decisive in the challenge. But on the left? England were sloppy and panicky and Phil Jones, in particular, was worryingly vulnerable as he was caught out of his position in central defence and easily surrendered possession. He could have conceded a first-half penalty and appeared unable to control the Swiss attacks. Outside him, Leighton Baines again gave the impression of a man ill-at-ease in an England shirt.
3. Wilshere is the best anchor man
England clock on with impressive victory
Three Lions have got their teeth back, says Hodgson
Switzerland v England: as it happened
Delph impresses on debut - England player ratings
Blatter is guilty of crimes against soul of the game
Charlton backs Rooney to break goalscoring record
England were in good shape with the midfield diamond and with Jack Wilshere, rather than Jordan Henderson, at its base. It allowed Henderson to use his running power and it required Wilshere to be more disciplined. England lack a specialist in this area there but Wilshere is the best candidate and could make it his own. He needs to be more comfortable in going deep to collect the ball from the defence and needs to know when to surge forward – as he did at the start of the second half when his low shot was saved. He has an eye for a pass and he can build the play from this position.
4. Delph must curb his aggression
Delph undoubtedly has the ability but on his competitive debut, and his first start for England, he could have been sent off in the first half. He was very, very fortunate to collect only one booking after he committed three challenges for which, on another day, a referee could have dismissed him. He was constantly warned by the Turkish official Cuneyt Cakir yet no one on England’s coaching staff nor captain Rooney saw fit to have a word with him. It was a shame as, otherwise, Delph was impressive and did not look out of place with his movement and passing and desire to break forward and join the attack.
5. Hodgson understands his strikers
After so much debate has centred on where the trio of Sterling, Welbeck and – most intensely – Rooney would play, Welbeck’s goal provided a wonderful vindication for Roy Hodgson's approach. Welbeck will also believe it showed that he is what he wants to be – a centre-forward, a No 9. The way he took his chance will delight Arsenal fans. The goal started with Rooney driving forward and picking out Sterling’s run, whose cross Welbeck steered home. It was all about pace and positivity and movement. Fair play to Hodgson for finding this bold solution.
- Switzerland 0 England 2: Henry Winter's match report - Paul Hayward: England finally summon spirit of adventure - Player ratings: Delph impresses but Cahill is man of the match - 29 things that have changed since the World Cup
