http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/572077/s/3e4229b9/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Ceuro0E20A160C110A818290CSwitzerland0Evs0EEngland0EEuro0E20A160Equalifying0Elive0Bhtml/story01.htm
Switzerland v England, Euro 2016 qualifying: as it happened
By Alan Tyers
9:46PM BST 08 Sep 2014
- Switzerland 0 England 2: Henry Winter's match report - Paul Hayward: England finally summon spirit of adventure - Player ratings: Delph impresses but Cahill is man of the match - Jason Burt: Sterling is England's most important player - 29 things that have changed since the World Cup

FULL TIME: SWITZERLAND 0 ENGLAND 2 Well, that's a nice shot in the arm for Roy, the England players and their fans. There was a lot of careless play, Wilshere was not convincing at the base of the diamond and Rooney wasn't great. On the other hand, England passed it pretty well, Sterling was bright and quick, Welbeck hit the target when given chances and there was some solid defending and keeping from Cahill, Jagielka and Hart. Not a performance to get carried away about, but on the other hand, it's a win away at the best team in the group, and you can't really say fairer than that. Pleased for Roy, that should keep people off his case for a bit. Sterling's rep continues to grow. All things considered, this is the best night for the England team in many a month. Thanks for following it with us, and goodnight.
GOAL! Good play England! Sterling plays it to Lambert, who holds the ball up nicely and times the pass well. Welbeck is onto it, and he's secured the points for England with a nice hard shot. Switzerland 0 England 2 (Welbeck 90+4) And that's the last meaningful kick of the game. Andrew Holgate writes:
<sees Welbeck has scored two goals>
<checks the date and sees April Fools has long since past>
<thinks there is a bug in the internet>
90+ mins: Danger here as England lose it and are stretched. Good covering from Phil Jags. Rodriguez has a shot that hits Stones on the foot, the deflection could have gone anywhere. It ends up in the arms of Joe Hart.
90+ mins: Decent break from England, Henderson freeing Sterling. Raheeeeeem sees Danny Wlebz on his right but just uses him as a decoy.
89 mins: Wayne Rooney leaves the field with yet another alright-ish England performance with which to burnish his legend. Rickie Lambert comes on and is soon booked for time-wasting.
88 mins: England, who have an average footballing IQ of about 73, keep pouring forward in attacks and nearly get caught in the break here.
85 mins: Rooney and Welbeck with a break, working together but then getting in each other's way. It's a corner. Cleared. Phil Martin:
I believe in the life and football you are either moving forwards or backwards.Each England performance seems a bit worse than the last one.
While I do feel that the entire England project is more or less totally hopeless, I'm not sure I agree. England have been less awful tonight than in some previous matches.
82 mins: England back off Gökhan Inler, giving him an age to line up a shot on the edge of the box. It skims the roof of the net. John Whelan writes:
Alan Smith says there are four areas Hodgson must fix. Are they Goalie, defense, midfield, attack?
79 mins: Johan Djourou has ploughed through Delph at the edge of the Swiss box. Delph with a heavy touch an Djourou is lucky not to be blown up for a pen as he clatters him. In fact, Djourou has done himself a mischief in the process and there's a delay.
77 mins: Change of Phils, Jones off Jagielka on. Jags is in it right away, all hands to the pump for England at the moment. Jones had been moving poorly for some while, gone in the leg.
75 mins: Ruled offside, but a really gorgeous move from the Swiss as the ball is flicked in first time from the left, Haris Seferovic meets it with a delicious volley that hits the bar. Blerim Dzemaili comes on in place of Xhaka.
73 mins: James Milner, very much the international footballer equivalent of Switzerland the country, comes on. Shaqiri whips in a devil of a cross, Hart grabs it.
71 mins: World Class Wilshere is coming off, he's made one or two nice passes and an equal number of sloppy blunders that might have been punished by a sharper opponent.
69 mins: England opened up again! the ball's played through, Drmic is onto it, he goes around Hart and tries to roll it into the empty net. But there's Gary Cahill with the heroic sliding block! Swiss claim handball, not without some reason.
67 mins: The crowd boo because England play on when Behrami is down, putatively injured. David Lebof:
To follow up on Fred Roberts' comments, not only could it help England, it could help swing the vote in the upcoming referendum.
65 mins: And the sub is in the game right away, Drmic with a break and shot after Wilshere blunder.
63 mins: Admir Mehmedi comes off and Josip Drmic comes on.
<noframe>Twitter: Michael Cox - That rather explains why Switzerland were so cautious earlier. First time they moved forward they got caught on the break</noframe>
61 mins: England get the stroke of luck with the finish but it was a VG move. Swiss were their own worst enemy there, too high up the pitch. The Swiss come at them from the re-start.
GOAL! Excellent breakaway. Welbeck pressures Inler, who gives it up. Rooney takes up the ball, this is a fine break from England. Rooney out to Sterling on the left. Perfect low ball into the box and here's Welbeck to meet it. He makes a solid contact with, erm, his shin, but the luck is with England and that fairly rattles into the net, by hook or by crook. Switzerland 0 England 1 (Welbeck 58)
56 mins: Classy football from the Swiss ends with Haris Seferovic lashing a hard shot at the England goal. Xherdan Shaqiri, the most talented and creative player on the pitch, beginning to work England, move them about, probe. The Swiss backs are defending high up the pitch. Kevin Lemon writes:
Obviously not everybody will agree with me, but here goes.
After our easy and effortless dismissal from the World Cup in Brazil I find it hard to imagine how expectations can be anything but Low. There is absolutely no need to play down our chances in 2016 Euroes when we already know we don't have one .
Hodgson has proven himself inept , and no further proof is necessary . We played that World Cup under his instructions and they were fatal . I saw high cross after high cross pumped into the area with nobody getting on to end of them . We played like that for 270 minutes . There was no real tactical change throughout all of those 270 minutes . Where was the player to convert those crosses ,,, there wasn't one ., and all that pointless dribbling around with the ball .
There were too many youngsters being given a chance . And , just why Mark Noble or James Tompkins is not being given a chance is beyond me .
My personal opinion on who could replace Hodgson could be deemed as controversial , but I would seriously consider Sam Alladyce . He knows how to organize a defense and break away into attack . His Football is not as bad as some West Ham supporters would have you think . I feel sure we would have won our first two games at the last World Cup under his stewardship ., and definitely be more upbeat about our chances in the upcoming Euros.
53 mins: England defend a freekick, but get outnumbered five on four. Delph has to make a block at the back post to deny Xhaka.
51 mins: Ball low in from the right, Sterling tries to hit it first time, he completely muffs it. This wrongfoots the Swiss Behrami, who inadvertently ends up striking a beautiful, crisp, entirely unintentional shot just wide of his own goal. That would have been a peach of an OG, and very apt. Fred Roberts might have the solution:
Hodgson isn't the man for the job. If England want to go places maybe they should pursue David Moyes (not), but if they really want to go places, can they tempt Sir Alex out of retirement? That'd be the biggest shake up in English football history since I don't know what .
49 mins: Good work from the Swiss now though, the fullbacks both well up the pitch, it's out to Rodriguez on the left flank, he drills it in low, and there's his right back counterpart Stephan Lichtsteiner to lash over. Talking of the lash, that pub down there must still be cranking out the cheap pints.
47 mins: Good play England! Wilshere plays it to Delph, gets it back, neat stuff on the edge of the box. Hits a decent shot, deflected behind. Welbz cannot get on the end of the ball that comes in from the corner.
46 mins: Swiss kick off. England need to come out for the second half, they were asleep at the start of the second period v Norway.
HALF TIME: SWITZERLAND 0 ENGLAND 0 One or two decent chances. Neither side getting the pulse racing. Both defences have made sloppy errors and sharper attacking units would have cashed in. Still, by no means the worse 45 minutes we have seen England play recently.
The England fans singing "Eff off Scotland, we're all voting yes", accoring to some at the ground.
Yeah, about that...
Second half is nearly ready to roll. Here's a few emails while we wait. Andrew Holgate:
England. Underwhelming since 1990.
Andrew seems to have spelled 1970 wrong there. Here is David Dean
Totally agree with J_Stern Cricket's twitter comment about the England fan band. They eek out such off-putting, confidence-lacking, 'we're a bunch of Johnnie no mates' tunes that they crush the team's soul.
I have never been back to an England match since I first heard this assemblage of losers strike up. Ban, ban, ban them!
From David Dean, marooned in hotel in Singapore, only place more boring than Switzerland on European Championship night.
44 mins: Swiss go down the other end though and lash the ball across the England box, and that's pretty much the end of the first half.
43 mins: Aw, go on England! Always a threat from set pieces, like any lower league opponent should set out to be. Corner. Wayne Rooney sticks it in the mixer and there's Phil Jones with a headed effort. Well saved.
39 mins: Hodgson on screen. "Temperatures starting to rise within the England manager," says Clive. I'm all for new technology on TV sport, but surely touchline gaffer-probing is too far.
37 mins: Switzerland the better team, but England not without a puncher's chance.
<noframe>Twitter: Paul Hayward - Classiest player on this pitch so far: Gokhan Inler of Napoli and Switzerland.</noframe>
33 mins: Jones gives the ball away, Shaqiri slips Seferovic in... hits it well... good save Joe Hart!
31 mins: Rodriguez has a corner, Welbeck with a weak defensive header and Stephan Lichtsteiner tries a first time effort from outside the box.
<noframe>Twitter: John Stern - The England band are the footballing equivalent of the Tetley's sponsored England cricket shirt - smells of failure</noframe>
28 mins: Dreadful from Danny Welbeck. The Swiss get in a terrible mess and here is Danny running down the right. He's got Rooney at the back post unmarked, and Strerling at the back of the penalty area. Either of them has a tap-in... but Welbz drills it hard across goal to neither of them. Shame, it's not like they're not trying or they don't want to do well.
27 mins: Baines drills an early cross in from the left, Rooney with a reaction header. Wide.
24 mins: England fans, accompanied by the England band, with a rendition of God Save The Queen.
<noframe>Twitter: John Brewin - Shaqiri playing well despite carrying Pique's baby.</noframe>
22 mins: Swiss coming into it more. Not much of a game. Behrami at the point of a good attack, but he wastes the ball. Delph still hurling himself around like a big aul mad one. He looks about 11/8 for a red card to me.
20 mins: Clive's got in there with a "better." Not the Classic Line-Up "that's better", a nice little twist.
<noframe>Twitter: Paul Hayward - Around 10% of seats vacant in Basel. No such thing as a Swiss recession so it must be England.</noframe>
17 mins: The Swiss break! Their first movement of any vigour, Baines gives it away Mehmedi, slips it to Seferovic, who goes down under pressure from Jones. Ref does not see it as a foul.
14 mins: Good chance for England as the Swiss give the ball away very cheaply, Sterling runs at the defence, England have men over and the Swiss on the back foot. Poor bobbly pass to Rooney, and a shot to match.
12 mins: Sloppy pass from Rooney kills a promising move deader than fried chicken.
<noframe>Twitter: Paul Hayward - The referee didn't book Delph in the 6th minute but he did in the 9th for a lesser offence. Laws of game meant to apply for 90 minutes.</noframe>
9 mins: Xherdan Shaqiri lofts in a tame freekick. Excellent vision from Joe Hart to spot Sterling breaking. He cannot deliver a cross, but the ball is not cleared and it breaks to Wilshere. He plays it to Rooney in the area! Wayne takes a touch. Maybe should have hit it first time. Too slow. Moment passes.
8 mins: Not sure if it is my headphones but the crowd noise at this match is mad irritating. Lot of vuvuzelas and those rattly rain things. Delph has slammed his second Swiss of the night, sliding in late on Stephan Lichtsteiner and he's not escaping the yellow this time.
6 mins: Excellent run from Valon Behrami but he is hacked down from behind by Delpy. Very lucky not to be booked for that.
5 mins: Just one home-based player in the Swiss XI: two from Serie A, eight in Germany. Nice work, Clive Tyldesley.
3 mins: Useful, brisk progress from Delph down the left but his low cross is just behind Sterling.
1 mins: Right then. Just open your mouth wide and we'll start the extraction. Rooney with a bright run down the left, but he's offside.
19.45 Joe Hart and Wayne Rooney there. This team really have some hair issues.
19.43 Switzerland: Sommer, Lichtsteiner, von Bergen, Djourou, Rodriguez, Behrami, Inler, Xhaka, Shaqiri, Seferovic, Mehmedi. Subs: Hitz, Benito, Senderos, Widmer, Frei, Stocker, Dzemaili, Fernandes, Kasami, Drmic, Schar, Burki.
England: Hart, Stones, Cahill, Jones, Baines, Wilshere, Henderson, Delph, Sterling, Welbeck, Rooney. Subs: Forster, Rose, Jagielka, Chambers, Milner, Oxlade-Chamberlain, Townsend, Lambert.
Referee: Cuneyt Cakir (Turkey)
19.41 Few whistles for the Swiss anthem. Excellent work, Ambassador!
<noframe>Twitter: Michael Hogan - Getting in early with a SWISS ROLLED or BASEL FAULTY prediction <a href="https://twitter.com/search?src=hash&q=%23tomorrowsheadlinetoday" target="_blank">#tomorrowsheadlinetoday</a></noframe>
19.38 Swiss people looking all wholesome and whatnot in the crowd.
19.34 Ha. Chiles, Wright, Hodd and Lee Dixon are standing by the side of the pitch. And someone has turned the sprinklers on them! That's the sort of prank we can all get behind.

19.31 "It's the fear of performing for your country," says Glenn Hoddle. VERY interesting choice of words. I thought he was going to say "fear of failure."
19.28 Roy Hodgson! "Enormous energy in the old-fashioned wing-half positions, we hope that Jack can get on the ball, he is a very gifted player. I am hoping this system will give him and Raheem chances on the ball. Our major task to conquer is fear, the worst thing for a performance is if players go out with fear."
Roy is invited to make a comparison with Andrea Pirlo - absurdly - and says "he wouldn't want to put that sort of pressure on Jack."
19.22 Much more cogently, Glenn also notes the potential weakness of the diamond. He thinks it is risky to have Wilshere - "who has never played that position for his club" - screening the back four at the base of a midfield diamond.
19.18 While Glenn Hoddle is talking about the players being pros, and that Norway got a lot of blocks in on shots. "If three of them had gone in..." says Glenn. Wise words.If those goals would have gone in, England would have had some goals.
GLENN HODDLE IS HAVING A GOAL!

nb a swear near the start of that.
19.17 BREAKING: Ian Wright is looking to take the positives.
19.15 The now-traditional half-hour IT crisis resolved (ish), we're cooking on football live blog gas. Welcome. Here's Adrian Chiles on the telly with his intro. "Gentle sort of place Basel," says Adrian. "Good place to soothe and recover after [recent England matches]..." Adrian's talking, so get your furious tweets in now.
18.50 Alan Shearer has revealed that he found the football on telly so boring the other night that he fell asleep. Talk about being hoist by your own petard...
"I have to admit I did doze off in front of the Norway game. Those who did go probably wish they hadn't."
[From his column in The Sun]
18.41 A harsh reading of England's chances from Andy Dean here
If England cant beat any of Norway (53), Italy (14) and Costa Rica (15). What makes anyone think they can do any better against Switzerland (9)?
Well I suppose in fairness England did beat Norway, although the match was so dull that it has already been half-forgotten.
18.40 The great and the good are giving their thoughts as to how England might line up.
<noframe>Twitter: Ian Dennis - England make 2 changes - 1 enforced - but significantly it's change of system from how they started v Norway. 4-3-3 in Basle</noframe>
18.35 Bit of agency copy on the England team sums up the major points nicely.
Roy Hodgson handed Fabian Delph his first start as England began their European Championship qualifying campaign in Switzerland.
The 24-year-old Aston Villa midfielder impressed when brought on for his debut in last week's tepid 1-0 friendly win against Norway and replaced Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain in the starting line-up at St Jakob-Park.
Danny Welbeck started in place of Daniel Sturridge, who sustained a thigh complaint on Friday, although Jordan Henderson overcame an injury scare on the eve of the match to start in Basle.
John Stones continued at right-back against Switzerland, whose starting line-up included former Arsenal defender Johan Djourou and ex-West Ham midfielder Valon Behrami.
18.30 Talking tactics. Not you, Andy Townsend.
<noframe>Twitter: Michael Cox - From the look of the England XI tonight, and considering the way they finished the game on Friday, could well be a diamond midfield...</noframe>
18.25 Team news!
England: Hart, Stones, Cahill, Jones, Baines, Delph, Henderson, Wilshere, Sterling, Rooney, Welbeck.
<noframe>Twitter: Phil McNulty - Germany gives you rock for its pre-match musical menu - here in Basel you get Morcheeba. Far more languid.</noframe>
18.10 And here's the likewise mighty Henry Winter on the test facing Englan's under-fire manager.
On the eve of a daunting challenge in Switzerland, Roy Hodgson sought to silence the chorus of disapproval around his England management by insisting that he cared passionately for the job, that he was the right man to develop the new generation and that his much-debated coarse outbursts were mild compared to his “viciousness” in training. Never mind the b-------, Hodgson suggested he could be Sid Vicious.
18.00 Have a read of the mighty Alan Smith on the four areas Hodgson must address
England went into the World Cup under the suspicion that its back four might prove the weak point. And those goals conceded against Italy and Uruguay did nothing to counter that particular argument.
So here we are at the start of a new era when Roy Hodgson must decide the best way forward. Looking ahead, the Gary Cahill-Phil Jagielka axis in central defence must be under threat.
For Monday night, I would be amazed if the manager veered away from this partnership seeing as the occasion demands experience and composure. But Cahill ideally needs a bit more pace and mobility next to him, meaning the improving Phil Jones might be handed a chance until the talented John Stones has properly developed.
As for the full-backs, a lack of good right-backs makes replacing Glen Johnson difficult, exemplified by the fact Jones will probably be handed the role in Basle. The situation is thankfully better on the other side where Luke Shaw can hopefully answer the call in time.
For now, though, Leighton Baines must sharpen up on the defensive side by stopping crosses with more determination. That could be important here when Xherdan Shaqiri drifts to that flank.
17.00 England then, will play the Swiss as underdogs. Is that fair? Does that suit England, possibly? The Swiss are ranked ninth in the world, albeit by FIFA, so it's all basically jokes. England are 20th.
Switzerland head coach Vladimir Petkovic says his side are now level with England.
Generous?
15.30 This advert has tickled me.

No stockpiling! You'd have to fancy a 0-0 as well, wouldn't you? If you're in Derbyshire, I should get down Heanor Town FC and have a few if I were you.
----
Alan will be here from 18.00 BST with team news and build up from Basle. In the meantime here is Henry Winter's match preview ...
On the eve of a daunting challenge in Switzerland, Roy Hodgson sought to silence the chorus of disapproval around his England management by insisting that he cared passionately for the job, that he was the right man to develop the new generation and that his much-debated coarse outbursts were mild compared to his “viciousness” in training. Never mind the b-------, Hodgson suggested he could be Sid Vicious.
After a few days of noting the criticism of Hodgson’s managing and blaspheming, Wayne Rooney, the England captain, had heard enough and intervened, declaring the dressing room “100 per cent” behind Hodgson. It was a welcome show of support for a manager who also retains the backing of his employers, the Football Association.
Those who take on the thankless task of trying to revive England’s fortunes know they travel across a bleak landscape sheltering from endless squalls with only the faint promise of a passing glint of warming sunlight.
Hodgson, an eternal patriot and optimist, sought willingly the challenge despite the doomed nature. Three lemmings on a shirt? Hodgson is determined to prove the cynics wrong, that he has the abilities to steer England in the right direction.
As he hopes to get England’s Euro 2016 qualifying campaign off on a decent note, Hodgson claws his way through the usual assault course erected for those England managers in the wake of disappointing tournaments. Every word is dissected. Every performance and result is scrutinised. After two tournaments, the safety net has gone for Hodgson.
Hodgson would like to work long-term, building the team, but he cannot afford to lose at St Jakob Park. Events on Monday evening will shape the mood of the next two years. Even with a defeat, England will still qualify, such is the modest quality of the rest of Group E and the ludicrously revamped qualifying process, but the headlines will drip with venom.
To read the full article click here.
