http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/600148/s/42536810/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Ccycling0Ctour0Ede0Efrance0C113465240CMTN0EQhubeka0Eto0Ebecome0Efirst0EAfrican0Eteam0Eat0ETour0Ede0EFrance0Eas0EPro0EContinental0Eteam0Eis0Ehanded0Ewildcard0Eentry0Bhtml/story01.htm
MTN-Qhubeka to become first African team at Tour de France as Pro Continental team is handed wildcard entry
By Tom Cary, Cycling Correspondent
7:32PM GMT 14 Jan 2015
Comments
An Africa-registered professional team will line up at the Tour de France for the first time this summer after MTN-Qhubeka, of South Africa, were awarded a wildcard for the world’s biggest bike race.
Although Barloworld, Chris Froome’s former team, had South African backing in 2008, they were actually registered in Great Britain, and based in Italy.
Qhubeka, which means ‘to move forward’ in Xhosa, is an African charity, which mobilises Africans by getting them on bicycles. It is backed by MTN, the South African telecommunications giant.
MTN-Qhubeka became the first professional African cycling team when it was awarded a Pro Continental licence in 2013. They became the first Africa-registered team to compete in a grand tour when they raced in the 2014 Vuelta a España, and a Tour invitation was widely anticipated.
Nevertheless, Doug Ryder, the team’s principal, said he “nearly passed out” when the announcement came through on Twitter that Amaury Sport Organisation, the Tour’s organisers had selected his team along with three French teams – Bretagne-Séché Environnement, Cofidis Solutions Crédits, Europcar – and the German team Bora-Argon 18 for this year’s race.
Cummings signs for MTN-Qhubeka
Kittel sends warning to sprint rivals
Cavendish 'disappointed' with second
Bobridge takes lead at Tour Down Under
“I honestly had chest pains and wasn’t breathing,” he told Cycling Weekly. “I called my wife and said: ‘What’s happening?’ Ten years of work came down to me sitting on Twitter and clicking refresh over and over. When we saw MTN’s name there, I had to read it five or six times. I didn’t really believe it.”
MTN-Qhubeka’s 22-man squad features 13 Africans as well as new riders signed from WorldTour teams this winter such as the Briton Steve Cummings, Edvald Boasson Hagen and Tyler Farrar.
Ryder said that the nine-man Tour team would be over half African. “We’ve got a long list of riders for the Tour already,” he said. “We’ve been thinking about it. All things being well, fit and healthy. We had a six to three ratio of Africans in the Vuelta. The Tour team could be five to four depending on how the guys are going.”
The team’s interim general manager, the former British road race champion Brian Smith, told the website Cycling Tips that the Nelson Mandela Foundation was keen for the team to mark Mandela Day on July 18 with a specially-designed kit.
