http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/572077/s/3e361748/sc/12/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cfootball0Cteams0Cswitzerland0C110A792950CSwitzerland0Ev0EEngland0EXherdan0EShaqiri0Ehappy0Eto0Ebe0Ecentre0Eof0Eattention0Efor0Ethe0Eright0Ereasons0Bhtml/story01.htm
Switzerland v England: Xherdan Shaqiri happy to be centre of attention for the right reasons
By Jonathan Liew
6:27PM BST 06 Sep 2014
Comments
In the days after the 5-2 hammering by France, there were signs that the pressure was finally getting to Xherdan Shaqiri.
After a couple of uninspiring performances, Switzerland’s World Cup hung in the balance. Back home, criticism of the team’s star player was mounting. One newspaper called him as “a nuisance”. The former international Rudi Elsener described him as “a diva”.
Instead of keeping his counsel, Shaqiri hit back at his critics. “What bothers me is that I am criticised a lot harder,” he complained. “Not everything depends on me. I can’t dribble the ball all the way from the back to the front. We’re little Switzerland, not Brazil.”
It was a defining moment in the career of the 22-year-old playmaker. By rising to the bait, Shaqiri had backed himself into a corner. Now he had to back up his words with actions.
But to understand what had brought him to the brink, you need to go right back to the start: to the making of a player whose immense gifts have often been his curse, who has occasionally found the hopes of an expectant nation as much a burden as a privilege.
Liverpool tried to sign me, says Shaqiri
Hodgson swears his new England plan will work
'I'd be proud to help England'
What is England's best XI?
Di Maria's late winner breaks Swiss hearts
Hitzfeld retires after Argentina defeat
If you ask Shaqiri about his origins, he will describe himself as a Kosovar-Albanian. And although he has lived in Switzerland since infancy, he still defines himself by his roots. When his club, Bayern Munich, won the Champions League, he celebrated with a half‑Swiss, half-Kosovan flag. From the very start of his career, Shaqiri has known that he represents something more than football.
Switzerland’s 350,000 second-generation immigrants are known as Secondos. More than a fifth come from the former Yugoslavia, and in recent years Secondos have become prominent members of the national squad. Apart from Shaqiri, other Balkan Secondos Granit Xhaka, Pajtim Kasami, Valon Behrami, Blerim Dzemaili and Admir Mehmedi are all in line to face England on Monday: beacons of inspiration in a country that has historically had a difficult relationship with its immigrant population.
“I think we have contributed to a good climate,” Shaqiri said in an interview in April. “And we give Secondos courage that they can achieve something – in life generally, not just in football.”
For some reason, however, Shaqiri has always been singled out for attention, probably as a result of his immense talent. His diminutive stature (5ft 7in), sturdy frame and quick feet have given rise to some odd nicknames: The Alpine Messi, The Magic Dwarf, Power Cube. He can play on the wing but most commonly plays as a No 10 for Switzerland, where his eye for a pass and unerringly accurate shooting can be put to best use.
The former Switzerland manager Ottmar Hitzfeld gave Shaqiri his international debut at the age of 18 and recommended him to Bayern. “He sometimes thinks too fast for his team-mates,” he has said. “He is always calm when he is in possession of the ball, no matter who he is playing against.”
Shaqiri first shot to prominence at Basle, the club he joined when he was eight years old. Perhaps his finest moment in a Basle shirt came in the Champions League against Manchester United in 2011, when he set up both goals in a famous 2-1 win. In 2012 Bayern came calling, but the following years saw him stagnate: hampered by injuries, struggling to break into a Bayern team that could boast Franck Ribéry, Arjen Robben and Thomas Müller.
The glare and spotlight of one of the world’s biggest clubs also seemed to unsettle him. A family man living away from home for the first time, Shaqiri found Munich’s voracious press and intense public scrutiny difficult to handle. He would moan about being stopped in the street, hole himself up with his brothers in his seven-bedroom house, slip over the border to Switzerland at every opportunity.
Towards the end of last season, in which he started only 10 league games and had been described by coach Pep Guardiola as his “most important substitute”, he decided he wanted to leave. Meanwhile, his performances for the national side and occasionally petulant body language were drawing increasing criticism. This, then, was the Shaqiri who vented his frustration before Switzerland’s final, must-win group game against Honduras. This was a young man at a crossroads.
Well, we all know what happened next. Shaqiri scored a brilliant hat-trick against Honduras, Switzerland’s first World Cup hat-trick for 60 years, single-handedly carrying the country into the last 16. Although Switzerland lost narrowly against Argentina in the second round, Shaqiri returned from Brazil as one of the stars of the tournament. The leading man had finally justified his billing.
The most recent transfer window saw Shaqiri’s brother and agent, Erdin, touting him around Europe as one of the most promising young talents in the game. Moves to Juventus and Monaco were mooted, but the closest flirtation came with Liverpool, judging by the number of premature “Welcome to Liverpool Xherdan Shaqiri” videos that can still be found on YouTube.
Despite all this, Bayern decided to give Shaqiri one more chance. A pre-season pep-talk with Guardiola cleared the air; injuries to Robben and Ribéry have seen him start the season in the first team. And in those early matches, you can spot a renewed assurance in Shaqiri’s game: the unbuyable confidence of a player on the brink of the next stage in his career, the poise and potency of a man who is finally comfortable being the centre of attention.
- 29 things that have changed since the World Cup - Paul Hayward: Rooney can learn from Bobby Moore's dark side - Wayne Rooney: Raheem Sterling can be the new Marc Overmars - Henry Winter: Roy Hodgson desperate to silence his critics - Scotland furious as Muller brace seals win for Germany - Michel Platini threatens retired Franck Ribery with suspension
