http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/600148/s/41bd9844/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0C11310A4720CAlternative0Esporting0Eheroes0Eof0E20A140Bhtml/story01.htm
Alternative sporting heroes of 2014
By Jonathan Liew
10:28AM GMT 24 Dec 2014
Comments
Sam Burgess
Let us set aside, for now, those still-fresh images of Burgess taking his first tentative steps in the blue of Bath, charging awkwardly into the contact zone like a bear demolishing a Christmas tree. Let us go back a couple of months, to his final game of rugby league in Sydney. A tackle in the opening seconds smashed his cheekbone and eye socket into bits, but Burgess simply got up and carried on playing with his one remaining eye.
The Aussies – not an easily-impressed bunch, as a rule – hailed it as one of the great performances in Grand Final history, and it was a Pom who produced it. Next time you wake up with a sniffle and think about calling in sick to work, remember that Burgess played one of the world’s most brutal sports for 79 minutes with a broken face. And then go to work.

Sam Burgess played through the pain (Getty Images)
43 reasons why we loved sport in 2014
From Ilkley Moor to the Maracana
A year of scandals, silly money and sackings
Gary Verity
People play sport and people run sport, but very few people could actually claim to have fundamentally changed sport in this country. Verity, the chief executive of Welcome to Yorkshire who brought the Tour de France to the north of England, may be one of those people. A humble tourist board chief with big ideas, Verity persuaded the French to buy into his vision, before pulling off one of the great sporting events of the year: a Grand Départ so breathtakingly beautiful and unanimously acclaimed that we all wondered why nobody had ever thought of it before.
The weekend brought £102 million into Yorkshire’s economy, which you imagine will be going straight under the mattress, but the wider legacy may be greater still. From next May, the Tour de Yorkshire will be an annual world-class bike race, pinning the county to the global cycling conversation for years to come. Now, can someone get Verity to work his magic on Fifa?
Kell Brook
Is Brook our most forgotten world champion? There remains a sizeable portion of the British sporting laity for whom Brook’s name conjures up two images: the guy who got stabbed on holiday, and the guy who keeps pestering Amir Khan for a fight. Neither description does him the remotest justice, but then Brook is someone who has spent an entire career struggling for recognition, denied the big payday that his talent merits, condemned to box in the shadow of his younger, more charismatic counterpart.
In August Brook beat Shawn Porter for the IBF welterweight title, the first British fighter to beat an undefeated American world champion on American soil since Lloyd Honeyghan. This is a special, special fighter, a man who has beaten injury, apathy and most recently a 12-inch machete wound, and is pound-for-pound arguably Britain’s second finest after Carl Froch.
And yet given Khan’s residual disdain towards him, it is easy to forget which of them actually has the world title. Let 2015 be the year Brook finally gets his showdown.
Laura Massaro
Actually, on reflection, perhaps Britain’s most forgotten world champion is actually Massaro, the 31-year-old squash player from Lancashire who finally relinquished her crown last week in Cairo, going out in the quarter-finals.
It has still been a hugely impressive year for Massaro, the world No2 whose misfortune has been to share an era with Nicol David, perhaps the greatest female squash player of all time. David beat Massaro at the British Open in Hull this year, as well as at the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow. But informed observers suggest that Massaro may not be too far adrift.
Along with James Willstrop and Nick Matthew, Massaro is a genuine star in a sport that struggles to translate strong participation numbers into mainstream support. This is a golden age for British squash, and yet it is going virtually unheeded. Massaro has also been a vocal advocate of equal prize money at tournaments, a battle that is still some way from being won.

Laura Massaro is Britain's most forgotten world champion (AFP)
Kumar Sangakkara
There comes a point where numbers are no longer sufficient to express the greatness of Sangakkara, but they are a good place to start. At the age of 37, Sri Lanka’s irrepressible wicket-keeper scored 2014’s only international triple-century, two of its four double-centuries and was the leading run-scorer in both 50-over and Test cricket, joining a very select group of batsmen to have topped both lists in the same year.
In Twenty20, he helped his country to a first global tournament in almost two decades before bowing out, and off the pitch he continues to be the sort of gentleman and statesman of whom cricket appears to be producing fewer and fewer. Sangakkara is simultaneously the guy you want as your president and the guy you want to go for a drink with, the brother and best mate you wish you had. There are rumours that he will retire from all forms of the game after next year’s World Cup. We will all be a little poorer for his absence.

Kumar Sangakkara raises his bat at Lord's (AFP)
Stephanie Roche
There was an element of outrageous fortune to Roche’s moment of YouTube brilliance, one of those viral videos that makes you want to tap the person next to you and whisper: “Pssst, seen this?” Not that there was any luck to the goal itself, a jaw-dropping control, flick, swivel and volley that Wayne Rooney could try 50 times and miss. But the fact that this small-scale Irish women’s game was even being filmed at all – shakily, by Roche’s manager at Peamount United – makes you wonder. How many other incredible feats of skill in the women’s game are we missing out on?
Roche has been nominated for the Fifa Puskas Award, and would be the first female effort to win. And in a year when a record 45,000 crowd turned up at Wembley to watch England’s women, this was Ireland’s own little blow for a sport that still meets with widespread cynicism in many quarters. Roche’s goal was a moment that reached out of the screen, grabbed you by the neck and willed you to believe.
Michael Garcia*
It all seemed such an appealing tale at first: the tough-talking, no-nonsense New York investigator striding into Fifa headquarters in Switzerland and hosing it clean. It could have been the plot of an HBO drama. Unfortunately, Garcia quickly found that prosecuting terrorists, state governors and global energy giants was a game of marbles in comparison to dealing with a bunch of grouchy old football men.
Denied access to vital documents, as well as the whole of Russia, Garcia produced a report that he has since been forced to disown, such have been Fifa’s increasingly imaginative ways of preventing it from ever seeing light of day. Garcia has learned the hard way that expertise in the law is not much use when dealing with guys who are above it.
* Also known as The Man Who Had No Idea What He Was Letting Himself In For

Michael Garcia found Fifa a tougher case to crack (AFP)
Phil Neville
The nadir of Philip’s year came in Manaus, during the World Cup, with a co-commentary performance during England v Italy that sounded like an executor reading out a bequest to a roomful of grieving relatives. The BBC received 445 complaints from people who really need to get out more, but Neville’s jungle folly raised a mildly important question: why was one of the biggest footballing occasions of the year placed in the hands of a man who had never commentated on live television before? Whatever the answer, we salute Neville for his good humour and strong comeback, speaking with assurance and insight on this season’s Match of the Day.
You often wonder, though, what would have happened if the Neville brothers had stuck to cricket. By all accounts, Philip was the more talented of the pair. Ever since then, however, it is fair to say Gary has managed to trump him in most respects: a better player, a more decorated international, a more successful coach, and now a media career that his younger brother can only dream of.
Chris Rushworth
Part of county cricket’s great charm is that on any given day, even the most of unassuming of characters can write their names into the history books forever. So it proved for Rushworth, the Durham seam bowler who became the only player this side of the war to take 15 wickets a single day’s cricket.
Rushworth’s nine for 52 against Northamptonshire was immediately followed another six for 43, a Durham all-time record. But the bare details only tell half the story. Seven years ago, Rushworth’s cricket career seemed over after he was released by his boyhood club. He worked in a call centre and sold satellite dishes in order to make ends meet, all the while plotting a return to the game. He has taken 50 wickets in each of his last two seasons, winning a County Championship and a Lord’s final along the way. Not bad for a bloke off the scrapheap.
And sure, he will probably never play for England. You may never hear about him again. But if you have ever played cricket, you will have faced a bowler just like Rushworth at some stage. England is a nation of Chris Rushworths, and on that moist September afternoon, he did it for all of us.
Fabiano Caruana
These days, most chess games between the very best players end in draws.
Victories are rare, hard-fought and squeezed like oil from a nut. In September, Caruana turned up at St Louis to face probably the strongest tournament field ever assembled, and won his first seven games in a row. It was one of the most stunning tournament performances in the history of chess, and chess is a game that has a lot of history.
Caruana is 22 years old, likeable and brilliant, and the Italian-American’s simple yet entertaining style has drawn comparisons with the great Bobby Fischer. The current world champion is Norway’s Magnus Carlsen, himself only 24, and thus the next few years - indeed the next generation - offers the possibility of one of sport’s all-time great duels. Not since Fischer and Spassky played for Cold War honour has chess been quite as in vogue as it now threatens to be.
