http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/671040/s/43df0ac2/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Ccycling0Ctrack0Ecycling0C11439680A0CRevolution0ESeries0E20A14150Eround0Efive0Elive0Bhtml/story01.htm
Revolution Series 2014/15, round five: as it happened
By John MacLeary, Lee Valley VeloPark
3:00PM GMT 28 Feb 2015
Having reached the penultimate round of this year's Revolution Series, the Lee Valley VeloPark hosts round five today and tomorrow and I'll be live blogging both evening sessions from 6.30pm while keeping you updated on Dame Sarah Storey's UCI Hour Record attempt on Saturday afternoon.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The race programme resumes in London with highlights including defending champions Maloja Pushbikers looking to see off a fierce challenge from team Orica-GreenEdge, which threw down the gauntlet after an electric win at round four in Glasgow last month.
Maloja Pushbikers will be fielding its strongest duo with team captain Christian Grasmann and Berlin Six Day winner Leif Lampater lining up at the VeloPark. Orica-GreenEdge will take advantage of its collaboration in the Australian national team to field a strong pairing of Jack Bobridge and Glenn O'Shea - fresh from the World Track Cycling Championships in Paris where O'Shea won silver in the omnium.
Grasmann and Lampater will face tough competition to win the round as JLT-Condor welcome back Ed Clancy and Team Sky's Pete Kennaugh. On his return, Kennaugh said, “I am buzzing to be returning back to London and really looking forward to getting back on the track. The fans are so loud here and I'm feeling good after some decent results recently on the road. The Revolution Series will help me keep my form too, as I prepare for upcoming races at Strade Bianche and Tirreno Adriatico.”
Round five of the Revolution Series kicks off on Friday February 27 with a Team GB v Rest of World race card that has eight British and eight international riders going head to head across a Madison, derny race, flying lap and Australian pursuit. There will also be an elite women's elimination and scratch race, as well as a UCI keirin (elite men), and the renowned special sprinters event; Revolution's Longest Lap.
Saturday's early session, which starts at 1pm, includes the Elite Championship points race, elite women's races and UCI sprinting. The session will also include an elite championship derny race with two heats leading to a final – replacing the flying lap. All of which sets the stage for Great Britain's most decorated Paralympian, Dame Sarah Storey, who will be hoping to break the revived UCI Hour Record.
The Saturday evening session sees European track champion and double Olympic Champion, Laura Trott headline a stellar line up, including Team Sky's Clancy and Kennaugh – back at the scene of their team pursuit gold at the London 2012 Games. The race card also features the HOY Future Stars, elite women's derny race and UCI sprinting.

