http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/612405/s/4212f512/sc/13/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Cufc0C113295670CUFC0Echampion0EJon0EJones0Etests0Epositive0Efor0Ecocaine0Eand0Echecks0Ehimself0Einto0Edrug0Erehab0Eclinic0Bhtml/story01.htm
UFC champion Jon Jones tests positive for cocaine and checks himself into drug rehab clinic
By Gareth A Davies, MMA Correspondent
8:30AM GMT 07 Jan 2015
Comments
In a shock revelation only three days after retaining his UFC crown, Jon Jones checked into a drug rehab clinic after testing positive for benzoylecgonine, the main metabolite in cocaine, in an out-of-competition urine test undertaken by the Nevada State Athletic Commission, on December 4.
Benzoylecgonine, however, is not a substance banned out of competition by the World Anti-Doping Agency code, which the NSAC follows.
It meant that Jones was not forced to withdraw from UFC 182 on Saturday night. But it remains a highly embarrassing moment for the fighter, and the UFC.
In spite of what showed up in his urine, Jones went on to retain the UFC light-heavyweight title at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas three days ago in a high-profile grudge fight with No2 ranked contender Daniel Cormier, by unanimous points decision.
Jones victory over Cormier (49-46 x 3) will not be overturned because of the ruling underlying it, and that it is not considered performance enhancing, yet it is clearly a stain on the sport with Jones the biggest star in mixed martial arts.
UFC 182: 10 things we learnt
Cormier pumped for biggest night of his life
Top 10 fights of 2014
Nelson 'could make lightweight easily' but refuses to starve himself

Should the UFC be implementing a suspension, punishing Jones under its code-of-conduct rules? That would send a clear message to all fighters on its roster, but the UFC has chosen to back Jones entering a drug rehab programme.
Both the UFC and Jones put out statements on Tuesday to Yahoo Sports.
"With the support of my family, I have entered into a drug treatment facility," Jones explained.
"I want to apologise to my fiancée, my children, as well as my mother, father, and brothers for the mistake that I made. I also want to apologise to the UFC, my coaches, my sponsors and equally important to my fans. I am taking this treatment program very seriously. Therefore, at this time my family and I would appreciate privacy."
UFC officials stated: “We support UFC light heavyweight champion Jon Jones’ decision to enter a drug treatment facility to address his recent issue.
"While we are disappointed in the failed test, we applaud him for making this decision to enter a drug-treatment facility. Jon is a strong, courageous fighter inside the Octagon, and we expect him to fight this issue with the same poise and diligence. We commend him on his decision, and look forward to him emerging from this program a better man as a result.”
UFC president Dana White added: "I am proud of Jon Jones for making the decision to enter a drug treatment facility. I’m confident that he’ll emerge from this program like the champion he truly is."
The UFC are supporting their great fighter, and champion. But after winning his eighth-consecutive UFC title fight, Jones will now have to work long and hard to rid himself of the embarrassment and stain on his sporting career.
The rehab move is partly a PR ploy, but if he has an addiction then one would wish him well in ridding himself of that, and realising its futility.
What Jones really needs to be made aware of, however, is his towering influence on the sport, and that he has harmed the sport which has elevated him to athletic greatness.
Get well Jones, come back, talk about it, and encourage athletes and young people to stay clean.
