http://telegraph.feedsportal.com/c/32726/f/616203/s/22959adf/sc/3/l/0L0Stelegraph0O0Csport0Cothersports0Csailing0C94898390CVolvo0EOcean0ERace0Edue0Eto0Estart0Efrom0EAlicante0Ein0E20A140Eto0Efeature0Eall0Efemale0Ecrew0Bhtml/story01.htm
Volvo Ocean Race due to start from Alicante in 2014 to feature all-female crew
By Kate Laven
3:30PM BST 20 Aug 2012
Comments
Just weeks after announcing details of a one design fleet intended to level the playing field between male and female competitors, Volvo Ocean Race organisers have received a fully-funded entry from Swedish hygiene and forest company SCA.
The team is thought to be undertaking selection trials before the crew is announced though with no women having competed in the past three races, availability of suitably qualified professional women crew with offshore experience has dwindled with most contenders likely to come from the short-handed racing circuit.
"I'm very pleased to see a women's team back in the race," said Volvo Ocean Race CEO Knut Frostad.
"The lack of women in the last few editions of the race has meant we haven't been representing half the population of the human race.
"I'm also delighted to welcome back Sweden, which has a rich history in the Volvo Ocean Race. This is extremely good news."
Women show strength in numbers
Should there be mixed crews?
My best and worst moments
Women to return
First whales, now waves
Is Volvo Race right to shun tradition?
The SCA team will be managed by Richard Brisius of Atlant Ocean Racing, which has a long record in managing successful teams in the Volvo Ocean Race.
"SCA's investment in an all-female crew is unique," said Brisius. "Competing for nine months in the world's toughest offshore sailing race is a challenge that deserves respect. The new boat design enables an all-female crew, and our aim is to create a strong team that will have the best possible conditions to succeed."
But Dee Caffari, the British offshore sailor who was known to be trying to raise a fully sponsored campaign with an all-women's crew for the next race, said she had no involvement with the new team and was continuing to look for backing.
"The best scenario would be for me to get funding and run a team I want rather than be involved with someone else's but it depends on who they get in.
"I have an idea who I'd have on board. It would be nice to mix it up, to bring in some new blood as well as some salty old seadogs."
As part of a move to reduce participation cost to around 15 million euros, Volvo Ocean Race organisers announced in June that the next two races will be raced in identical 65 foot boats. To encourage more women competitors, they also said all women's crews were allowed two extra members over a men's crew.
The last woman to take part in the race was Australian Adrienne Cahalan, who started the 2005-06 race as navigator on Brazil 1 skippered by Torben Grael.
A fit but petite 5'5" professional, she was sacked at the end of the first leg to Cape Town when it was discovered how powerful the new Volvo 70 boats were and how important a crew's physical strength had become.
Women have played a major part in the round the world race since it first started as the Whitbread Race in 1973 with Clare Francis, Sam Davies, Tracy Edwards, Emma Richards and Dawn Riley all forging professional careers through the race.
In 1997-98 Christone Guillou campaigned EF Education with a team of women and in 2001-02, Lisa McDonald of Amer Sports Too became the last female skipper of an all-women's team.
Edwards was the first to campaign with an all-women's crew in 1989-90. The trailblazing Maiden crew reunited for a regatta last November with America's Cup skipper Riley leading the way in voicing calls for a return of women to the race.
